# Assembly

The cyborgs of the assembly are constantly pulling each other apart and putting each other back together.  Their society has VERY poor boundaries, but its a lot healthier than its chrome and corpses look gives it.  The assembly are the most immortalist of the factions in Age of Wonders...  I'm not linking that in the graph right now, heh.  They rarely die.  Oftentimes they won't even kill.  Great swathes of the Assembly's common soldiers go out there onto the battlefield to pull apart their enemies... and put them back together again.  They're acting the same way they'd treat their neighbors, which is also the way they want their neighbors to treat them.  The fact that getting cyborgized by a violent amateur is horribly traumatic to people who are not cyborgs of the assembly seems a bit lost on the average member of this society.

Beyond that, the assembly is also an extremely literalistic faction.  It's easy to imagine the [[es-teq]] offering only a metaphorical immortality; the assembly make a similar promise and obviously mean it very literally.  The technology of the other factions verges on mystic mumbo-jumbo; the technology of the assembly falls back on customer service mainstays like, "Have you tried turning it off and back on again?"  If it weren't for the presence of other factions that don't make sense in a literalistic mode, the assembly themselves wouldn't make the game less literalistic.  Corpses-and-chrome cyborg society with poor boundaries and an inappropriately universalizing ethic?  I can imagine that as a military hazard, sure.  I can imagine that as a society that can build advanced weapons and sunder them, too.

Yet I think they are still making a non-literalistic "civilizational conjecture" point.  They're pro-science like the shakarn, with a society of radically free-flowing information, and I think their deconstruction/reconstruction attitude itself is a commentary on a certain kind of scientific mind.  While intending no harm, they still shred the sanctities of other societies, leaving what was bright and vibrant in pallid tatters.  The assembly pull everything apart and then "fix" it, yet somehow their fixes only ever result in creating more members of the harsh assembly.  The shakarn are much better at studying things without destroying them, and they're even better at becoming what they study if they choose to do so.



[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[es-teq]: es-teq.md "Es-Teq"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"