# Shakarn

The shapeshifting reptillians from [[age-of-wonders-planetfall]] are called shakarn.  It's difficult to determine if their society is extremely opaque or radically transparent.  Are they nearly always lying, or are they nearly always honest?  The only thing that's certain is that they're thrilled to be themselves by being other people.  Best of all, you might already be one of them!

There are shakarn /everywhere/.  It's not just a joke about spies, it's rather important to their tactics.  Skilled shakarn leaders take it for granted that they can just find two or three shakarn wherever they go.  Their favorite residential developments are all about training shakarn to be everywhere.  These all-terrain lizard people love being anyone but themselves, and they love themselves for doing it.  Is it a paradisic society where a fun-loving omnicompetent populous gets to be doing something different every day, or a disposable dystopia made of millions of interchangeable chaotic liars?  It is clear that the answer is yes!

The game gives them a bonus to raze actions, but I can still only imagine them doing that as a desperation action, because I can't imagine the shakarn as anything but xenophiles.  If being not-Shakarn weren't as awesome as being Shakarn, why would the Shakarn be so happy to be either?  So while I do imagine shakarn as people who would enjoy setting fires, I imagine them doing it in festivals, games, and art projects.  At that, part of what I like about the shakarn in Age of Wonders is that it's impossible to imagine them doing much of anything without either being artists or employing them.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Age-of-Wonders-Planetfall]: age-of-wonders-planetfall.md "Age of Wonders Planetfall"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"