# Algae Farming for Soil Quality

Subtopic of [[geo-engineering]]

Algae is a famously *un*desirable food.  There's a lot of interest in using it as a biochemical and mechanical feedstock for energetic inputs to systems, due to the ability of alge to grow enthusiastically in conditions unfavorable for other forms of agriculture, but it's not easily added to anyone's diet.  (Note that seaweed is algae, so seaweed aquaculture is also a form of algae farming.)  Despite this fact, algae has a lot of uses as various forms of feedstock where its presence isn't noticed.  Chemical processing to the rescue; get far enough from bugs and people will applaud their inclusion.

One thing that's already done is to process algae into fertilizer.  I think this should be scaled up in the name of ecological management.  Algae is cheap among the industrial inputs, and it seems to me that if you wanted to purpose-grow an input for the process of transferring nutrients into barren areas, algae would be a good scalable candidate with many alternative uses by which to ensure that increased output would not go to waste should the soil quality management program gets trimmed, obsoleted, or outcompeted for necessary resources.  Renovating barren areas of the world increases the ability of the planetary ecology to sink carbon and maintain a healthy water cycle.

The most important cloud cover for cooling the planet is the cloudcover that forms nearest the surface; if we can do better than misty forests for shielding the planet from excess heat, I do not know how.  With this thought in mind, we should be pursuing the expansion of forest cover, and one way to expand forest cover without sadisplacing human habitation is to pursue reforestation of presently barren regions.  One of the primary barriers to afforestation is low soil quality.  In some regions of the world, letting a region go fallow is tantamount to afforestation, because the soil readily supports the intrusion and development of the large plantlife that we consider typical of forests.  In other regions, fallow regions turn into nothing more than grasslands.  In the most unfortunate regions, fallow land desertifies untended, and active effort is necessary to maintain land in a useful condition.  Pursuing improvements in soil quality as part of a deliberate afforestation strategy involves changing a key variable which determines whether fallow land turns to forest or desert "on its own".

I occasionally think about how to afforest regions, and although I'm not properly educated on this subject (I may someday pursue the relevant education though it has only sidereal importance to my personal desires), my thoughts keep coming back to the need to improve the soil.  We understand that we must rectify soils to maximize agricultural yields.  Has the same kind of thought been applied to ecological management?  If so, why have we not greatly shoved back desertification, to turn the baking dry lands into something that protects our whole planet?  I know it can be done, because it was done in the USA decades ago.  This could help advance development in other regions, as it helped advance development in the USA.  In *at least* a regional sense, climate is not destiny, and the biosphere *can* be improved upon.

See also:
[[transgenic-algae]]



[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[geo-engineering]: geo-engineering "Geo-Engineering"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"