# AoWCommander Profiles

I shouldn't write this; it's perilously close to writing fanfic.  Yet I've enjoyed a few of my heroes distinctly more than others in this game, and I'd like to give them some distinction.  Note that I typically use <Name> the <Descriptor> to distinguish commanders and focus my thoughts about them.

Karacal the Burning Fool:
Shakarn [[Celestian]]
Sand-colored scales, curving horns fringed in orange, black patches around eyes.  Minimized armor, no ornamentation, known to levitate.
"This IS paradise!"
Heroic and egalitarian; masochistic and pyromaniacal.

Mirigill the Blind Advocate:
Amazon Psynumbra
Wearing a mask, a helmet, and a blindfold.  Not an inch of skin is showing past armor, nor eyes.
"Nothing can exist without having merit.  Push into every pattern; there is ALWAYS something to find."
Scavenging the abyss; searching for the soul in darkness.

Gredikine the Utopian:
Shakarn Heritor
Blue tortoise with a red mohawk and a blocky scanner module grafted to his face instead of eyes.
"We will never see every beauty, even in our own society, but always we must trust that what we have not seen is worth defending."
Reliable lieutenant; proud of his faith.

Grigori-65:
Assembly [[Celestian]]
Cyborg body minimized by humble attire, brass skull armoring capped with drill-horn.
"We can be who we wish to be, and there is nothing more worth celebrating."
The original golden unicorn; accept no substitutes.

Morvant the Scribe Infernal
Oathbound Psynumbra
Golden armor, golden halo, golden sensor headset.  
"It behooves us to acknowledge just how near the Abyss we are proposing to protect people."
Aware of the fall; still golden hearted?

Kevinsky the Literalist
Shakarn Promethean
Smiling red lizard loves his flamethrower.  Green-fringed earfins, bright red eyes.
"If it's not actually happening, I can't tell!  I have to judge it first-person!  I live here!"
Master of the burning nope; willing to reject the inexorable.

Viridian Mistwalker
Shakarn Xenoplague
Drab grey lizard hiding in sealed green hazard armor.
"We must flinch from no healing potential.  The virtue of technologies is always up to us to decide."
A fanatic for medicine; disappointed in himself.

Razzatzo the Dredgekine
Shakarn Heritor
Fish-faced blue lizard with a blocky scanner module and gold regalia.
"If we are at all capable of understanding a technology, it is our duty as Shakarn to see a fraction of our people committed to its mastery."
Shapeshifting traditionalist seeks novelty in broad semistatic development; a lover of the inherent contradiction in society.

Clayton the Antigambler
Oathbound Voidtech
A thin crown woven through straight black hair, on a man with blue eyes and a worried brow.
"Unfair outcomes are symptomatic of inadequate probability control.  If we can fix that, we should."
An expensive intolerance for uncertainty; needs enforce no taboo to banish gambling from his presence.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Celestian]: celestian.md "Celestian"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"