# AoWPlanetfall by Empathy

It's a setting of near-endless warfare, and maybe a twisted misrepresentation of many concepts in society to boot, but I think an interesting thing to estimate about the factions is how empathy-dependent each one is.

1.  [[Shakarn]]
    1.  The shakarn need empathy like they need air to breathe.  They are drowning in understanding and are desperate to synergize all outlooks.  Good shakarn are good because they understand people.  Evil shakarn are evil not because they don't understand people, but because they understand people very exquisitely well.
2.  [[Oathbound]]
    1.  If the oathbound aren't capable of preferring empathy, the amount of influence their predictive and mechanical sciences can hand out is pure nightmare.  Their oaths are meaningless without empathy, and so they are the second most empathy-dependent society.
3.  [[Amazon]]
    1.  The Amazon military involves weaponizing bioengineered lifeforms.  This does actually require being able to understand other minds.  Animals have "small minds", yet they aren't at all susceptible to advanced manipulation.  Even though they're using it in combat, what they're using depends on empathy.
4.  [[Dvar]]
    1.  This is where the 'is also maintaining a recognizably normal society' section starts.  The Dvar are not especially weaponizing empathetic ability, but their society still requires it to survive.
5.  [[Vanguard]]
    1.  Like the Dvar, the Vanguard are reliant on the sidereal existence of a functioning civilian society.  Unlike the Dvar, they have cryo-pods and interplanetary redeployments, so an extremely empathetic society would give them a lot of painful attachments, putting them under the Dvar for empathy-dependence, but still above every nation that militarizes the lack of empathy.
6.  [[Syndicate]]
    1.  Like the Dvar and the Vanguard, the Syndicate are dependent on a functioning civilian society, preventing their empathic ability from bottoming out.  Unlike the Dvar and the Vanguard, excess empathy poses a visibly apparent threat to their society.  They use indenture contracts enforced by mind-control technology to forcibly stabilize a chaotic society, and even the chaos in that society is largely the result of hypertuned and manipulative cultural industries.  They're straining their free will to the edge to prevent low-empathy leaders from being ejected.
7.  [[Assembly]]
    1.  They pull each other apart and put each other back together... consensually or not.  Reading their lore, I get the impression that they actually have a healthier civilian society than the Syndicate does!  Assembly civilian life is full of high-quality tech support assistance and helpful people with a violent yet awesome eagerness to empower you to be the healthiest, most capable person you could possibly be.  It's not even...  totally unempathetic, because I understand how cybernetics could be loved THAT MUCH.  That makes sense to me, but it's still lacking the delicate concern for consensuality that an empathetic society ought to have.
8.  [[Kir-ko]]
    1.  It's a hive.  Kir-ko can't betray the hive.  It's not clear that they lack empathy, but it's clear that they don't need it.  Alternate interpretation: they're at the top of the list, because they rely on being able to understand each other excessively well, and their society would fall apart if they were less empathetic.  In other words, this is where the list loops...

A similar listing could be made for the secret technologies.  I'm interested in this stuff, because I'm fixated on societal conjectures...

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[shakarn]: shakarn "Shakarn"
[assembly]: assembly "Assembly"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"