# Being Human

Your species is ugly.  You have flat faces, poorly structured noses, and weird ears.  You come in a very few colors that aren't very different from each other and you don't even appreciate what little range you have; historically most humans would kill to suppress even that limited range of color.  When you don't smell bad, it's because you smell edible, and I don't at all enjoy that thought.  You are missing basic emotive components with your stiff ears and absent tail, making you hard to read.

Worst of all, because it is not a physical ill, you are crude and rough with each other.  You insult, mock, and occasionally even threaten each other in what are supposedly good and friendly contexts, demeaning yourselves while demeaning others, and you consider it obligatory that people submit to such exchanges else *they* are unfriendly.  I had not experience of these behaviors living as a [[dragon]]; I have found only traces of them among dragonkin communities on Earth.  I think humans would murder each other less if they were more polite to each other.

Even though it will not necessarily fix the personality issues, I think humanity would be greatly improved by ceasing to be humanity, which will be possible if technology improves enough to enable a [[posthumanist]] future.

# Linked By
[[dragon]]



[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[dragon]: dragon "Dragon"
[posthumanist]: posthumanist "Posthumanist"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"