#cannabis

I no longer use cannabis.  I'd like to use it, but it irritates the people who violated my privacy.  They splashed "coincidental" references to cannabis in places I visited regularly, when and only when I'd recently used cannabis.  The loathing hostility of the mind-rape cult - there are real tyrants on this world - is something that I'm helpless against.  If only we had panarchists on Earth, defending the technology of the reciprocal will!  Unfortunately, all we have are forced unionists who defy the boundaries between minds as much as they can.

I still have chronic pain, and I'm still interested in the substance.  I have a general interest in changing my state of mind (if I can do so without injury).  Things with a distinct psychoactive effect are interesting to me even if the effect is basically negative.  I like my mind; I want to move through its spaces.  This is something of a 'psychonaut' affinity, I think.  It's really about openness to experience, something towards which I seem to have been born with a strong inclination.

As a painkiller, cannabis is weird.  It doesn't really stop the sensation of pain the way opioids and OTC painkillers do.  It only makes pain ignorable.  Being in pain becomes less urgent and more like wondering about how a baseball team scored in its last match - if I don't have a specific reason to care urgently about that, it's trivia.  Pains that I can't do anything about, like chronic pains that rarely ever go away, become less like pains and more like trivias.

I'm prone to racing thoughts, and cannabis makes that 'worse', but I also kind of like my racing thoughts.  Lately I've discovered a treatment for racing thoughts, too.  If I want them to stop, I can chew on peppercorns.  The terpene caryophyllene seems to be a curative to racing thoughts and an anxiolytic.  I learned about this after puffing on a cartridge loaded with a strain that had an intense fraction of caryophyllene.  It tasted like black pepper and licorice, a weird flavor profile that stood out a great deal to me.  The strain was advertised as causing no paranoia.  I found it kind of slagged the rate of my thoughts, and was an unusually "empty-headed" high; my thoughts raced less than they race sober!  I looked up the flavor, and discovered that not only does caryophyllene contribute to the flavor of black pepper, but that chewing on peppercorns is already cannabis culture lore for dealing with racing thoughts.  Since discovering this, I've been wondering if black pepper should be used more in cooking, especially in times and places where people are recuperating from great stresses.

I was motivated to create and publish this file, because I wanted to add an entry to [[imagine-a-brain-implant]].  Chemical reservoirs are one of the big things that I think humans should be implanting into themselves.  Well, how about a caryophyllene reservoir?  It's not a superstimulus that I think would incline people towards wireheading, but if the trigger condition were correctly set, it's something that I think would be good for the mental health of someone who had one.  In a more mass market sense, they'd also be popular among cannabis users.

---
2021-8-13
Yesterday on 4chan, someone posted something claiming that CBD (cannabidiol) is a cure for COVID-19.  Inspired by that, I'd like to create a potential research links section here.  A friend of a friend has COVID-19 and I'm considering whether I should buy them a box of Martha Stewart CBD gummies as a care package.

This window was force-closed while I was trying to work on gathering research links.  I didn't close the window.  This was a forced-input event of a kind that I've had many, and it's pretty common when I'm working on stuff that embarrasses the people who hated me after I stopped providing cybersexual services to "virtuous" people online.  I'm guessing that pointing out that the rape brigade loathe cannabis is the embarrassment in question.  I know why they claim to hate cannabis: "Cannabis users do nothing."  In other words, cannabis users are boring to watch illicitly, and the illicit watcher set considers their entertainment to matter more than anything productive.

The same people who violate privacy to try to punish all evil in society ARE the people who molested me, as near as I've been able to discern.  Until we stop giving people the "right" to violate the rights of others, we won't stop empowering awful people.  I'll delete this paragraph momentarily as well, but it'll still be out there.  I've been having trouble continuing to study due to the stress of having had a forced input event tampering with my files at a point when I said things embarrassing to the people who stalked me when I stopped being sexy for them.  When I was no longer YOUNG ENOUGH to be sexy for them!  I hate having ongoing vulnerabilities to "intelligence" types!  I'm a law-abiding pacifist.  I oppose secrecy.  I expose everything in my life.  I don't HAVE anything to hide.  The only reason people have to violate my privacy is because they did bad things and then needed 'good' reasons to hurt me.  I've been honest, but the people "who only value integrity" weren't honest to *me*.  Cannabis should be federally descheduled!  It's an important pharmaceutical compound!

---



[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[imagine-a-brain-implant]: imagine-a-brain-implant.md "Imagine a Brain Implant"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"