#Carrying-Capacity-of-Earth

I would estimate that the sustainable carrying capacity of the Earth for a high-tech society is 2 billion people.  2 billion may be too low for the actual current balance point, but is an intuitive estimate based on the argument that giving everyone a US-average quality of life would require four Earths worth of resources. If we assume that America is an inefficient mess that could use cutbacks even for the sake of its own happiness, a more modest estimate of the requirements for quality of life could bring the optimization balance point as high as 4.4 billion. I don't think it's that high. I really don't believe that it's as high as 7.9 billion, a current estimate of the population, nor 11.2 billion as current models predict will be the point at which population growth stabilizes.

Getting to 2 billion would involve a long period of voluntary population decline. Small families, heavy investment per child. If we crack immortality first - and I sincerely hope we do - I would argue that we should abandon the target in favor of preserving everyone. _That_ calls for childlessness in order to prevent conditions from worsening. If conditions worsen enough, immortality is unlikely to remain feasible, but it's better to try and fail than not to try. Failure is however not inevitable, because people can collectively see the resource deficit and be like, "Okay, having kids would make this worsen, let's just not have kids." So the immortal population could still 'wait a bit' to get towards the target, and in the meanwhile people would continue working to improve conditions so that the balance point would rise.

The balance point can shift. It isn't destiny that the carrying capacity's balance point remains at 2 billion. For instance, space elevators would increase the Earth's carrying capacity, as would other orbital access innovations. Successfully colonizing another planet would also yield a source of increases to the carrying capacity. I think these things are likely. Two items is not an exhaustive list of every innovation that would likely increase the planet's carrying capacity. Since we are however far _over_ the balance point of life quality, it's safe to predict that these innovations will only lessen the problem rather than result in a situation where population increases become rational again. At the same time, it is also not destiny that the carrying capacity would increase. Rampant ecological destruction would create long-term declines in the carrying capacity, increasing the burden of each individual life being supported. Resources exhausted before replacement resources are ready would create downwards shocks in the carrying capacity with concomitant reductions in quality of life if the population is over the new balance point. These sources of reduction to the Earth's carrying capacity would be more likely in a highly natalistic world, as resource demands upon the earth and its resources would intensify with population growth.

---
Back to [[authors-ideals]]