# Celestian

ALL IS OR CAN BE GOOD.

The Celestians are presented as purity and light, but what do their low-level soldiers use?  Their fists.  What do their high-level soldiers use?  Madness and mind control.  What is their landscape disaster?  The Veil of Tranquility, which makes people "happier", while inflicting a 20% penalty to research and making everyone more vulnerable to celestians.  Five veils of tranquility will paralyze the research output of a colony in exchange for +30 happiness per turn.  What is the Veil of Tranquility?  Well, that's not made clear, but it's visually represented as a miles-high flaming beacon above a large meteor impact crater.  Finally, the Celestian Doomsday device is described as controlling the entire planet with psionically-enforced Truth.

There's hypocrisy laced throughout the secret technologies of the Celestians.  Sure, they can heal each other, and there's nothing hypocritical about that.  They can teach tranquility, and if that's scary in battle, there's still nothing immoral about it.  Yet two of the Celestian abilities are about projecting pacifism... and then exploiting it.  Those abilities are about forcing the enemy to die peacefully rather than fight back.  That isn't pacifism.  That's more like sadism in denial than pacifism.  The Celestians enforce a reckoning that they themselves are doing their best to sidestep.

I think the Celestians aren't quite as purely good as they're supposed to be, and I think the [[Psynumbra]] (their opposing number) aren't quite as purely evil as they're supposed to be... although I do think the celestians are better than the psynumbra, heh.  The psynumbra in one of their quests call the celestians narcissists, and it strikes me as fair, especially for the low-level troops.  (The celestian light-bringers are just brutal.)  Yet I also get a forlorn sense from the Celestians, like "in this universe, under these rules, we are the best that can be done."  They're the ones who are most motivated to get out there and seal rifts to the Abyss, preventing the final dissolution of the setting into torment.  Judged among the game's secret technologies, the celestians are the one that cares most for the happiness of the public.

More personally, "celestian shakarn" is kind of how I've thought of my father since this game came out.  His conviction in the harmonic potential of life extended somewhat beyond the evidence of his life, and there was a tension between the peaceful nature of his ideals and a certain combative split in his nature.  He was capable of a powerful charisma with a great deal of truth, but exposure to that side of him stressed most people out.  He would've been a bad person in paradise, but in the environment that he actually lived in, he was being the better man.  That seems descriptive of the celestians in Age of Wonders: Planetfall more generally.  The Celestian doomsday weapon is a proper atrocity, but I think the celestians in general are a pattern that could and would otherwise choose to give way to something better.  They manipulate pacifism because they want the right to live in a society where the preference for pacifism is victorious.

# Linked By
[[age-of-wonders-planetfall]]
[[Forests-on-the-Water]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Psynumbra]: psynumbra.md "Psynumbra"
[age-of-wonders-planetfall]: age-of-wonders-planetfall.md "Age of Wonders Planetfall"
[Forests-on-the-Water]: Forests-on-the-Water.md "Forests-on-the-Water"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"