#character gallery 

This is a gallery of some of the past characters that I've used for roleplaying.  This is only a small fraction of the characters I've played, focusing on a few that I consider especially worth preserving.

* **Chimes:**
  * Fifty two thin silver rectangular plates, completely blank and featureless.  Capable of flying with no obvious levitation source, and of stacking up neatly like a pack of playing cards when not in motion.  Every plate makes a different sound if struck, and Chimes could communicate only by striking its plates together to make music.
  * Friendly and a good listener, but not very talkative.
  * Potentially mistakable for a whirling ball of blades while performing musically.
* **Yoet:**
  * Otter in a ruined and helmetless suit of high-tech hazard armor whose many unhealing wounds wept a silvery nanoreplicant goo that caused psychosis on contact.  Yoet was a chemist in an era that solved all known problems in her field and produced standard automation for all chemicals of known interest.  Lacking interest in other fields and feeling utterly irrelevant in her own, Yoet became consumed by a drifting rootless search for the meaning of life, driving her to dangerous experiments that did nothing to answer her questions.  Half mad and dangerously unhuggable, but utterly nonviolent.
  * Disappointed to be misunderstood and in truth quite hard to comprehend, she couldn't make friends who comprehended or even recognized her search for meaning.  Which didn't stop it from happening, it just meant that there was a lot more wandering alone through ruined places involved, and more writing of poems unlikely to ever be read.
  * Sometimes seen wearing dressed wounds; sometimes even with healed wounds and a white laboratory outfit replacing her broken hazard armor.  It was little more than changing outfits to her.  She didn't understand why anyone would care, and resented cleaning up for an irrelevant society that couldn't understand any of her interests.  It wasn't like she could /die/ of nanite infestation.  Was she supposed to keep herself in a pleasant state for lovers in a sexualized eternity?
  * She didn't have a better answer than the search for love, but it dissatisfied her like everything else.  The hypersexual areas were a ruin to her, too.  They were just another kind of bleak disconnection.  Everything was forlorn to her, though some of it was beautiful.
  * Cutesy areas were the worst.  Implausible.  Mindless.  Unincisive!  And bizarrely hazardous, in the context of her setting.  The cute areas were the ones that would mind wipe dissidents!  Yoet was scared of that, and found it far more intimidating than merely being perpetually eaten alive by a mind-wrecking nanoswarm that was trying to wipe her mind.  Those were *her* nanites.  She was *used* to them.
* **Syra:**
  * Giant ever-burning bird of prey, surrounded by an aura of fire that could burn no living thing, but indeed healed whatever it touched.  Syra had no origin and no ambitions, but existed as an embodied prayer of healing upon reality's imperturbable spiritual edge... despite which she occasionally sought conversation, and was curious about society as a place in which she did not live.  Theoretically very dangerous, but really gentle and friendly.
  * A wandering observer like Yoet, but much happier about it.  Wherever Syra went, she was the tranquil epicenter of several meters of absolute safety where everyone being licked by her flames was soon in vibrant perfect health - at least for a while.
  * Not an anthro bird.  Feral bird.

I may add more later.  I may try to add every character I can recall, eventually... though I doubt it.  Yoet was something of a first and last.  In hindsight, she was almost prophetic.  She felt pressured to keep herself in a pleasant state for lovers in a sexualized eternity... and lo, that was where I encountered bonobianism.  So it was like...  that was supposed to be the answer, huh?  Yoet couldn't put to words why that was dissatisfying to her, nor then could I.  I don't think I ever used her in a sexual scene, but I put away her qualms as I'd put away my own a few years earlier in pushing myself to adopt the presumption that sex would have true value.