# City Quirks

5% of everything is stolen in this city.  It is considered a kind of local entropy; all valuable things are eroded by nicks.  It is also considered a kind of local artwork; thefts are of tiny amounts and concealed adeptly.  That there is a wit to it has been well-proven, as twice the city has carved communal statues from blocks of unusually valuable stone left out in public squares.

---
It's oddly uncomfortable to add more to this.  Sinter's paradise is the only easy one so far, though certainly I've thought of other city quirks to potentially use in writing.  Are creative difficulties always also emotional difficulties?

---
8 great philosophers rule this city.  Once per year, for one day, everyone in the city is mind-controlled by one of the philosophers.  The month leading up to this event is a great campaign season, as the people debate over which philosopher should next control them, culminating in an election.  In that one day of perfect unity, everyone adheres perfectly to one of the city's 8 philosophies, and for the next year that philosophy is considered ascendant in the city's governance.  Although the city is both harmonious and interesting, some of the people who are drawn to it always make plans to be elsewhere on the day of unity.

---
This city's incomplete walls have not harmed its reputation as a defensive bastion.  Favorable terrain and excellent defensive planning have kept it from changing hands in several attempted sieges.

---
Once per year, everyone in this city is required to participate in a commodities forecasting exercise, and then a subsidy is distributed in prizes whose value varies linearly with that citizen's accuracy in the previous year's forecast.  36% of the public consistently estimates no probable change and considers this a basic income program fueled by the pursuit of commodity price stability.

---
The city's weather forecasts are required by law to be pessimistic.  The weather is considerably better than its raining parade of dreariness and storm warnings implies.

---
Every twenty years, this city-state elects a new king.  In order to stand for the election or vote for it, you have to be either a bookie at one of the local arenas, or one of the top 10% of registered local arena gamblers.  Locals believe this results in kings who have a good eye for people; tourists believe this results in kings who reliably support the city's favorite sports.

---
There are three major cities in this region, but the boundaries between them are constantly being renegotiated.  Sometimes this is done for sensible administrative or economic reasons, but most of the territory shifts are the result of mock battles at the borders of the three cities.  This is a local recreation, and the cities rebalance over time to keep it interesting.

---
Back to [[detached-setting-pieces]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[detached-setting-pieces]: detached-setting-pieces.md "Detached Setting Pieces"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"