# Climate News Archive

This is for unsorted links to climate news with headlines, potentially also with commentary.  I also intend to use this category for geo-engineering articles.  This is for environmental news at a larger scale than [[Environmental News Archive]].

https://www.wired.com/story/is-it-time-for-an-emergency-rollout-of-carbon-eating-machines/ - Is It Time for an Emergency Rollout of Carbon-Eating Machines?
Commentary:  I think this concept needs to find more synergies.  For instance, are there ways to suck carbon out of the air with obvious benefits to local environments?  Can these plants be placed so that they are valuable to their localities in addition to the less immediate concerns of global climate?  This also includes siting them so that they are in the immediate proximity of carbon emitters (for maximum absorption) as well as end-users for their synthesized gas (for local economy).  Findng applications that sink carbon will also help make these more useful.  If hydrocarbons captured from the air by carbon-absorping plants could be processed into plastics instead, we would be trapping that absorbed carbon in a form that would not leach into the atmosphere for a very long time.  If a biodegradable plastic is chosen, that carbon can be even be returned to the availability of other biological processes...  carbon rich soils are a carbon sink for the rich vegetation that they sustain.  My intuition, right or wrong (and confessedly not at this time researched) would be that it may be better to process this hydrocarbon input materially for biodegradable plastic production, and then to grow biofuels in the enriched soil.

https://techcrunch.com/2021/02/15/severe-weather-blackouts-shows-the-grids-biggest-problem-is-infrastructure-not-renewables/ - Severe weather, blackouts show the grid’s biggest problem is infrastructure, not renewables
Commentary:  I'm a big fan of long-term storage and building up resource stockpiles, and it looks like a missing angle here is to note that if the afflicted area had greater reserves of stored natural gas, it wouldn't have had to make a tradeoff between heat generation and power generation.  That kind of rationing can be unpredictably lethal, and unpredictable lethality is not healthy for any civilization.  Modern capitalist economies sometimes run too taut; it's 'more efficient' to not store resources, but the cost of doing that is that sometimes resources that 'should' be there have been 'efficiently' allocated somewhere else.  Storeability is a major issue with renewables, too.  There's a residential energy developer (Swell Energy) attested in the article to be trying to improve storage to resolve this kind of issue in the future; I can't say this with certainty sans studying Swell to be sure, but I think I approve.

https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/feb/15/mexico-coal-fossil-fuels-climate-crisis-amlo - Mexico was once a climate leader – now it's betting big on coal
Commentary:  I'm not sure that meeting 35% of renewable power production is actually worth it if that accompanies expanding coal.  There seem to be so many suffering communities who want money from coal mining.  It's not like coal is chemically useless; maybe a global wind-down subsidy need to be implemented that buys up coal for semipermanent storage.  We can use through it without using it for power.  Meanwhile, I'm a little unimpressed by what this mentions of record levels of renewable energy overloading the power grid causing a blackout...  That sounds like a call for better regional interconnections and power storage.  Humanity needs 'energy banks', Alpha Centauri style, and not just for electricity infrastructure.  That game underestimated the degree to which energy banks would also be climate-regulating infrastructure.

---
Back to [[news-archive]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[news-archive]: news-archive.md "News Archive"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"