# college notes

I was thinking about uploading my class notes here.  I don't actually /take/ class notes, historically; I've always relied on my native ability to absorb texts and the potential causal structures that they suggest.  So I'm not sure I'll do this in both a social sense and in a more fundamental one, which is that it'd be something new.  What is taking notes?  Is it rephrasing the material in order to train algebraic-thesauri comprehension of the text?  (Does that process increase word-association loading to increase the probability of thoughts in targeted domains?)

I'll go forward with this if I can.  I hope I can find ways to make it help me get my schoolwork done.

[[ENVS&100]] - Environmental Sciences 100: Survey of Environmental Sciences
[[MATH130]] - Math 130: Introduction to Statistics
[[METR101]] - Meteorology 101: Introduction to the Weather
[[CHEM131]] - Chemistry 131: Introduction to Organic Chemistry
[[CHEM140]] - Chemistry 140:  General Chem Prep w/ Lab
[[MATH151]] - Math 151:  Calculus 1

This semester is a little disappointing, but only a little.  I need the stats class for every favorable future I've imagined for myself save the one where I accidentally become an unexceptional middle management dragon.  This stats class is *serendipitously* focused on a textbook of statistical analysis of the life sciences.  Despite my distaste of coincidence, I can't deny that this coincidence is a favorable one, bringing useful information to me quite directly as it does.  To think of the broader scale, maybe it speaks to an attempt by colleges to funnel mathematical interest towards bio-sciences.  That thought only makes me happier about this particular coincidence.  As long as I'm allowed to share in the rewards, I'd be quite happy to live in a world where scientific achievements are sniped from me again and again by mass interest from competent people.  A world line like that would advance very rapidly in medicine!  People would suffer less and get to experience new ways of being.

Environmental sciences and meteorology weren't originally subjects that I intended to study at college.  This was slightly a sorrow, as I'm actually very happy to be taking these classes.  I'm excited about the upcoming semester.  The political complexities of my upbringing showed me a lot of beauty in the subjects of weather and environmental sciences, so I wanted an excuse to take these.  It is my inability to perceive it as the substance of a career which kept the subject out of my degree planning, but a lucky misfortune has yielded readily its silver lining.  The list of courses that are less fit to take online has blamelessly delayed swathes of the obvious path through my degree, and it did so without raining on two of the classes that I'd previously sought a reason to take.  Now my reasoning is that, while Stats still has to be my true priority this quarter, I'm still getting science credits while padding my courseload into something that will not vanish into the doldrums.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[ENVS&100]: envs100.md "ENVS&100"
[MATH130]: math130.md "MATH130"
[METR101]: metr101.md "METR101"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"