# Collected Thoughts on The Viceroy

This page is currently almost blank, but I'm intending to develop it into a collected reference pointer to stuff I've said elsewhere about The Viceroy.

---
When I eventually fill this out, it will contain and/or reorganize the texts that I've posted to my Steam account page while contemplating The Viceroy.  I hope Steam doesn't lose them!

---
Preserved fragments:
/\ - 1
"Ignoring the question of sustainability at other levels, what do YOU need to most nearly approximate stability at YOUR level?"

"Administrators.  Give me people who can motivate others to follow protocols exactly.  For all the complaints against bureaucracy, people never understand the degree to which they are complaining about specifically faulty bureaucracies.  Fifty excellent middle managers can nigh-indefinitely operate the immortality protocols for a mid-sized territory.  Any less excellent structure will be unsustainable, while any structure trying to achieve that end with fewer truly excellent bureaucrats is a pure false economy - at least at THIS level."
\/ - 1

---
I like seeing iterative refinements of simulation titles.  I think it's a valid and historically effective way of pushing simulations towards their best potential, and that the effectiveness of the process for yielding quality improvements can be emphasized by pointing out the way that simulation products generally fail in the market if they produce an iteration that is of lower quality than its predecessor.

I also like thinking about speculative possible content for cultural products that I enjoy.  In the vein of this and the previous statement, the following section is for suggestions about a hypothetical The Viceroy 2.  I am producing and publishing this for my own enjoyment, independently of the odds that such a product will ever exist.

Suggestions for Viceroy 2:
1. [[collapse-type-suggestions]]
2. Every research project could offer two actions to the player.  One of them increases something in exchange for bureaucratic waste, as currently implemented.  The other demerits one possible objective stat in exchange for boosting another possible objective stat.  Some of these could directly oppose each other.  I would term these "deviations", and thus-classify The Panarch's Mercy itself (though its costs and effect should be unchanged).  Deviations should share the trait that they cannot occur as Protected constructs.  Implementing this suggestion, a justification for the term "deviations" should be supplied in the University, providing a lore-friendly explanation that "deviations" are policy constructs which the Commonwealth will not pledge to protect, but which Viceroys may implement in their territories at their discretion should they have the relevant technologies.

---
Back to [[The-Viceroy]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[collapse-type-suggestions]: collapse-type-suggestions.md "Collapse Type Suggestions"
[The-Viceroy]: The-Viceroy.md "The-Viceroy"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"