# Difficulty of Self-Monitoring

It's very difficult to commit to accumulating counts about myself.  By accumulating counts, I refer to the kind of performance-tracking data commonly available in videogames to help the player optimize their performance.  I understand the function of such counts in helping players improve their performance in games.  The difficulty I have with creating such counts is partially emotional and partially literal.  To the extent that it is an emotional difficulty, it is also difficult to use available tools to accumulate counts.  To the extent that it is a literal difficulty, the availability of tools is greatly prized.

I don't know what principle differentiates the fraction of emotional vs literal difficulty.  My only conscious interface with this structure appears to be the discovery of this as predominantly literal difficulty, which discovery is made when an attempt to use an available tool proves relieving and useful rather than frustrating and dispiriting.  I would predict that, at least in my own case, as tools of self-observation become more powerful and easier to use, more of these challenges will be "discovered" to have been predominantly literal difficulties, and as a causality for this I would propose that powerful, easy to use tools are themselves a kind of emotional asset which tends to overcome any emotional deficit which could have existed to their deployment.  It is important to note therefore that developing mechanisms for the observation of emotionally difficult counts is not necessarily wrong, but it's important that it be done tactfully and well so that the tool will more surely achieve its fullest potential.

I'm considering listing things as they are discovered, here.

Self-monitoring tools discovered to have been difficult to utilize primarily due to literal difficulty:
1)  Fasting time
    I was born overweight, and I've never not been overweight.  I've done some fairly alarming calorie counting experiments, and I've discovered that my body seems to be brutally unwilling to yield up stored resources; I don't start shedding fat until I'm eating under a thousand calories a day.  Trying to count calories has been stressful every time I have attempted it, so I can't say that I have (yet) found that calorie-counting is of predominantly literal difficulty.  This challenge existing, I pushed past 'calorie counting' and into the territory of 'no'.  For some unknown psychological reason, targeting four hundred calories or less (which is what I consider to be a fasting diet) appears to stress me out less than targeting a thousand calories.  Very nearly the only way in which I have ever lost weight is by fasting.  The problem is that I'm not good at fasting.  It's really hard.  I've struggled to tally up how much time I spend fasting.  I've recently discovered that this was primarily a literal difficulty, as I now have access to a fasting tracking app which gives me to-the-second counts of how long I have been fasting and how long I plan to continue.

    ---
I feel like it's unlikely my discussion of literal difficulty above was comprehensible.  I was trying to express something difficult.  I was not denying the existence of emotional difficulty in this task.  I was saying that emotional difficulty in this task is not perceptible.  I can only discover the difficulty of this task when I succeed at increasing my self-monitoring, and I can only thereby discover literal difficulties in this task.  I expect this to lead to a perceptual bias.
    
I know that the task contains emotional difficulty, because I can feel how it affects my mood to contemplate it.  Yet emotional difficulties are sometimes unnameable unless invoked with unexpected specificity... and worse, naming them doesn't always help, but risks intensification or other injury.  We don't subject people to narrative gauntlets IRL, because we recognize that as a form of psychological abuse.  So if the emotional challenges can't be named or addressed, how can productive self-monitoring become more possible?

Inspired by the perceptual bias I noticed in my cognition (which I am validating by updating this file at a later time), I propose a practice of treating all difficulties in self-monitoring as de facto literal difficulties to be solved through ease-of-use.  It's an interface problem.  Only in the most hypercompetitive videogames are peoples' feelings hurt despite the utter ease of use that videogame self-monitoring presents to people, and those games are for many people the most unrewarding games for their difficulty.  Reporting to the player how they're doing within the task that the videogame presents to them is one of the most basic universal functions of videogames.  Making accurate task-monitoring available to the individual is a universal function of videogames, and I think the general hedonic acceptability of them is a valid indicator of how the emotional challenge of self-monitoring can be addressed more generally.