# Diversican Cloning

Diversicanism is a futuristic ideology that I use in high-tech settings.  Diversicans believe in maximally broad development with as many edge cases as feasible with a special focus on genetypes and neurotypes.  They're a biotech-fixated analogy of the Panarchists from [[The-Viceroy]], and they're what I imagine to be the ideology of the [[es-teq]] branch of the [[shakarn]].  Diversicans can and do advocate for the scientific preservation and even willful reintroduction of genetic disorders.  They also strongly value biodiversity and the development of medical treatments.  The Diversican philosophy includes an edge of masochism that sounds something like this, "Yes, we're preserving suffering in society, but if it should happen that we have made a mistake about which traits are actually adaptive, we have retained tolerance for our errors."  The idea of the Diversicans is that the whole biochemical reservoir of potential is available to them, and they will therefore never fail to develop a possible medicine.

I came up with this philosophy and I sympathize with it, but I am not a *pure* Diversican.  The opposite of a Diversican is an Excrucian, a believer that some patterns can and should be extirpated, reduced to archival data, and then forgotten about.  I consider myself Excrucian, not Diversican.  Still, I wish there were more Diversicans IRL.  I didn't invent that ideology in hatred of it.  Diversicans are obligate defenders of morphological freedom and uplift rights.  I would build [[Yggdrasil]] in love of Diversicanism, and the triumph of Yggdrasil will be the final betrayal of Excrucianism.  This, I would prefer.

---
Back to [[authors-ideals]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[The Viceroy]: The-Viceroy.md "The-Viceroy"
[es-teq]: es-teq.md "Es-Teq"
[shakarn]: shakarn.md "Shakarn"
[Yggdrasil]: yggdrasil.md "Yggdrasil"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"