# Dragon

Rawr.  I am an [[otherkin]] dragon.  I am terribly unhappy with [[being human]].

I think I could write forever about dragons.  It's not a spiritual affinity for me, it's a thwarted biological affinity.  I don't care about the symbol.  I care about the body.  I'm supposed to have earfins; little muscled spars on each side of my face with wrinkly flaps between them, that rise, fall, or turn with my attention.  I'm supposed to have a tail; a flexible muscled limb for signalling.  I should have hindquarters capable of launching me into the air, and wings capable of catching me there... although I don't really mind the lack of wings as much as the lack of other things.  I only had a muzzlehorn, but most dragons have horns, and I like those as well.  I even ought to have pheromones, and I don't mean anything so mind-controlling as humans portray them in fiction.  Your neighbors' land should bear their scent!

When I say this is biological, some of it is prurient.  Earfins are sexually sensitive in intimate contexts.  To the extent that human bodies react in scent, human noses can't detect it.  Human leg structure is wrong.  Humans have no horns.  I don't know how to be attracted to someone without a tail.  I am incredibly disappointed with human sexuality.  I don't even think humans are as beautiful to each other as dragons are to one another.

There's a society that I miss, as well.  There were two other sapient species in that world; humans (who usually hated us) and hill-raptors (who admired us and typically insisted that they were also dragons).  Yet more importantly, there were dragons.  We were the rightful rulers of the land.  Our territory maps - long since transferred to paper - were the best cartographic tools in existence.  We loved the land.  We had alliances and treaties between us as well; each of us was sovereign.  We even had neutral territories and common flyways, defined by ink and custom.  We invited one another deep into our territories to discuss personal matters, or we met on neutral ground to discuss larger events and trade treasures amongst one another.

It was galling that anyone should be able to exclude us from any part of the land.  Where humans arranged their affairs without challenging our territories, we did them no harm; where they accepted our governance, they lived safely in our lands.  Yet they hunted us, and tried to force us into hiding while insisting on the right themselves to live openly.  It's true that we killed more of them than they killed of us, but that disparity vanishes when compared to reproductive rates; we didn't kill them in a way that impacted their population levels, but they killed us in a way that impacted ours.  Nor is it true that we would necessarily have killed *any* of them if we'd been safe from them.  It was fairly unheard of for any dragon to kill a hill-raptor, and it was fairly unheard of for any hill-raptor to reject the territorial claims of dragons.  The link should be obvious!  The hill-raptors worked with us in where to site their fortified towns, and we were comfortable having them as neighbors.  The humans ceaselessly pulled down forests and plated the land in famine, so we ended up in conflict with them.

Yes, famine.  They're trying to plate the land in farms and they're really just plating it in famine.  The primitive societies where families have babies and babies and babies and babies and are constantly destroying nature to build farms end up wailing at god when the land dries up.  They ought to be wailing at the rampant reproducers in their society.  A dragon can eat like a village and still destroy the land less than a human population exponentiating in misery.  Why do humans breed MORE when they suffer?

I don't know what customs the hill-raptors used to keep their populations balanced, but we had no trouble with them.  Their population increased slowly over time and they weren't nearly as prone to plagues and famines.  They quarried out hills and drove mines into mountains instead of destroying forests.  We considered that pattern much more interesting and favorable, especially because individual hill-raptor communities tended to send emissaries throughout our territories giving modest gifts in celebration when they discovered rare stones and metal ores.  We could trade with them favorably, and there was no apparent conflict between their wealth and our wealth.  In hindsight, I actually no longer disagree with "the pretense of draconity" that the hill-raptors held to.  They were right; they were dragons.  The dragon community on Earth is more diverse than the dragon community that I lived with in that lifetime, and interacting with more unusual dragons has made me realize that the echoes of the perfect form are broadly recognizable.  I would now classify the hill-raptors of my former world as raptor-dragons.

We did consider the hill-raptors somewhat unfavorably warlike.  Humans considered us a demonic evil threat to them (perhaps because we objected to them mistreating their children by massively reproducing in poverty!), but we only considered humans vicious nuisances who could sometimes be lived with.  There were a few dragons who survived settling in human communities outright.  I think more humans died in human-raptor wars than ever died to dragons, and if we'd worked more closely with the hill-raptors, they would've wanted to use us militarily.  *We* wanted to tend our lands and treasures in peace, not tear down castles as living siege weapons.

I'm enjoying this reminiscence of old politics, but to step back to the meta-level for a moment...  I mentioned that I could write about dragons forever, but that's not really the objective.  In this graphed notes paradigm, how would I break this up into multiple pages to get interesting network connectivity?  I'm not used to organizing my thoughts with any tool like this.  I feel like I should read more about it.

# Linked By
[[2020-11-19-First]]

