# Dragon Transition Fears

(1/9/2021)
I'm afraid that species transition will open up dragons to sexual exploitation by bad actors.  I just got kicked out of a dragon social environment for expressing this fear, by people who would be sanctimoniously outraged by my "lying" to "flatter myself" by claiming it, but I'm not lying about what moved me and they aren't right to be sanctimonious.  Their hatreds are unfair and I'm still moved by what moved me.

This is a real fear based on my actual life experiences.  My virtual draconity was enough to get me sexually exploited.  Real draconity would get real people treated that way.  I'm comfortable with the idea of dragon sex workers existing someday just as I was comfortable with my own role potentially being "sex worker", but I'm not comfortable with that being the product of targeted manipulations against people under duress just as I was uncomfortable with my own role being "involuntary sex worker".  I fear what happened to me is only more likely if dragons are physical entities accessible to the kind of people who only care about sensation, and now that the thought has occurred to me, I'd like to somehow come up with protections against the possibility.

The original context of horror was the idea of people choosing at adolescence to be dragons.  I would've done that in a heartbeat.  It's basically what I already did.  My will to live as a human plummeted until the person who I was before (said differently, the person in whose body I now dwell) pretty much died in the flesh, and then I took over with my own much more extraordinary will to live.  My first thought about being reincarnated at adolescence was something akin to gratitude; I thought that meant I'd get to skip the awful parts of childhood and I'd no longer be OLD.  I had been OLD when I died as a dragon.  Not everything worked as well as it used to.  Discovering the dragon community post-awakening was revelatory.  Although less socially proper, so was discovering dragon porn online.  Not only were dragons part of this society, people thought they were sexy!

Well, I carried with me also the thoughts of my host, especially as his memory skein restored itself over time.  "Why is sex interesting?" was still a thought of concern to me, though now it had an answer at least in an edge case, "Because among dragons, it feels good, and it promotes friendliness among dragons of nearby territories."  So even though I've complained bitterly about social environments where sex was treated as basic friendliness, I'm also from one in a more cosmic sense, in that my prior life was in such an environment.  I'd say it was a lot healthier then...  This is all very digressive, though...

I've struggled to find company in this world that wouldn't regard me as arrogant.  I've found that it's a type, it's the individual who is seeing it.  People who see me as arrogant will see me as exerting an awesome, almost unbearable control over them even if I'm crawling on the ground.  It doesn't matter how many hours I spend trying to meet their concerns if in their heart they imagine themselves rightly superior to me and undeserving of being "subject" to my "control".  I once had a stranger rant at me for my supposed god complex, and I don't know where he got the idea, but it was more of a dull experience than an alarming one.  Like, "Oh, another one of these?"  The reason I'm sharing this is that it is right at the root of why I think that young transitioned dragons would be targeted for exploitation: they'd be targeted "to humble the mighty".

The dragon form is impressive.  A lot of people are desperate to see who they can "take down a peg" and would not look kindly on anyone adopting such an "arrogant" form.  The more loudmouthed of these aren't even the deepest problem...  The ones whose first response is a yell tend to warn off the people they don't want to engage with.  Yet some of the people who are desperate to humble others are sexually motivated.  They enjoy convincing "proud" people to do humiliating things.  Combine that with someone like me who doesn't hate easily and wants to help others enjoy experiences, and you get some really vile training experiences.  In my case it was at least all virtual.  Species transition would make it a physical reality.

When hateful people have pressed vilely on others, they don't just work through their issues with the target of that.  They don't admit their actions the way I'm keen to admit to mine.  I ended up a lying slut to people like that.  I was supposedly desperate.  Everything I was willing to do was put on me as though I'd been sexually demanding and wanted nothing else in life.  Which was vile; I've been a transhumanist applauding scientific advance and wanting to physically transition into a dragon for twenty years now!  The only reason I got into sex work at all was that I met someone who claimed to be a wealthy transhumanist who encouraged me to take on an emotional support role promoting safe, positive sexuality.  That's what I was supposed to be: an avatar of sex-positivity!  Well I no longer regard *that* guy as a good avatar of sex-positivity himself, heh.  I was getting paid in fake loyalties and bright future somedays, probably because paying me in money would've made it a little too clear that my consent was being purchased.

That... is basically a blueprint that I fear dragons would be vulnerable to if they transitioned at adolescence.  If you really want to control the big lizard, you don't tell them that you want to see them ground into the dirt.  Nobody listens to that.  What's much more likely to succeed is telling them that sex is friendly, that drinking piss is an expression of love, and that what would really make the world love dragons is having sexual access to them.  Remember to take lots of pictures!  You want to show the world how proud you are of your dragon sex toy!  People shouldn't be afraid of dragons, they're cute and sexy!

People who are interested in becoming dragons are likely to be unusually open-minded, so they're going to be less skeptical of weird claims about how people ought to interact with each other.  They're likely to be personally and very sincerely interested in dragons being more accepted in society, and in eroding the stereotype of the dragon as a huge terrifying danger.  Putting a dragon who wants dragons to seem harmless into a bunny suit shouldn't be that hard.  And I think it could be effective on individuals in part because I think it could be effective on societies: it's very true that the dragon sex toy doesn't look terrifying.  Great terrifying swathes of this manipulation rely on what's true rather than on what's false.

It almost seems like labor that should be done.  I mean, it did to me years ago.  I still know why I thought it was a good idea.  It kind of still feels that way.  I don't know how to make it not an entrapping nightmare.

This body isn't who I am.  I've been wanting to transition for twenty years now, and I'm gearing up to put another twenty years of work into making the dragon body possible in this world.  I really hope I don't succeed only to look back and see other people living the hell I went through.