# Egalitarian

I agree with the precept that societies can be judged on how they treat the least fortunate among them.  Furthermore, I believe that it is effective for people across society to help each other as they would want to be helped, and that mutual assistance is the backbone of civilization.  I believe that developing new capabilities where they are most difficult to develop is essential for expanding society's capabilities to the fullest extent, and that hierarchical societies massively underdevelop their potentials by focusing resources on the top few.

I consider the industrial revolution to have proven that humanity had broader common productive potential than had been previously suspected.  I believe that without ambitious attempts to serve the interests of the public, automobiles would have remained bespoke toys for a few rich people, and the potential to make automobiles in a cost-effective manner would barely have been explored.  I think that this describes a trap that many technologies fall into, and which today has even been suffered by medical innovations.  By failing to pursue maximum public provision, great medical needs have been left served only by expensive rarities, and the impression has been allowed to build up that all medical services are too expensive to provide.

I don't believe that modern medical markets are willing or able to lift that boat anchor off their backs, but I also don't think a large modern government could be stopped from heaving it if they were lead by an administration set on trying.  As a [[transhumanist]] who believes in both augmentation and [[rejuvenative-medical-interventions]] as near-future medical potentials, I believe such a policy would create a substantial economic achievement for the first mover, which would feed into economical healthcare advances for every other nation thereafter.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[transhumanist]: transhumanist "Transhumanist"
[rejuvenative-medical-interventions]: rejuvenative-medical-interventions "Rejuvenative Medical Interventions"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"