# Environmental Collapse

I'm ambivalently an environmentalist.  Environmental collapse scenarios are a real x-risk.  That's the only reason I particularly care about the environment.  I'm bizarrely urban for a [[dragon]].  I'm impressed by architecture, not so much by trees.  I think skyscrapers are extraordinarily beautiful structures.  I like small, weird structures.  I like grandiose conventional structures.  I like city parks almost as much as I like actual forests.  I long for an arcology future... or just moving cities off-world.

When I started writing it, [[Forests-on-the-Water]] was going to mention [[geo-engineering]].  The train of my thought sapped my morale and discouraged me from mentioning it in that context.  I think geo-engineering is the only sane approach to environmental management.  However, I don't refer to specific geo-engineering proposals when I say that.  I'm not throwing my weight behind the proposition that we have to darken the skies with aerosols.  Not even calcite aerosol geo-engineering.  I mean more broadly that we have to take control of the landscape and build its dynamics more effectively into our society's long-term planning.  We should be capable of terraforming regions, reversing desertification, and also of building unconventional structures that change the albedo and water dynamics of the surface.  When solar panels in a field lead to increased dew accumulation in the field beneath them, that is the kind of geo-engineering that I'm talking about.  Our designs should start being built around such potentials.

I don't think people realize how important plant transpiration and fungul spore releases are to the water cycle.  I'm frustrated by desertification.  I feel like I know how it could be fixed.  The solution is grotesque... it involves promoting decay and getting a good growth of decomposers in a region so that natural cloudseeding will work, along with promoting plantlife so that transpiration will accelerate to put water in the air for natural cloudseeding to condense.  It involves fertilizing the soil as though for agriculture (though more delicately than yield-maximizing agriculture), and doing it for the benefit of the ecology instead of for food production.  None of this is incomprehensible.

Likewise, it doesn't seem like there should be any ecological problem that a species as capable of blanketing the earth in metal as humanity can't solve.  We could turn this planet into one giant city!  Fixing up wilderness areas is LESS difficult than ecumenization.  Why can't we do it?

I kind of wonder if someone out there doesn't want to engineer the world in a way that would sustain still more humans.  If so, I sympathize as an antinatalist myself... but man, I don't think they're using any kind of hoax.  If the problem stems in engineered mediocrity, that's dangerous!  I think that even the livable outcomes have side effects that people don't understand.  The societies of the middle east turned their region into an awful desert, and I'm not mentioning that in hatred.  It didn't stop them from having huge families (and pervasive sexual ethics issues), whereas meanwhile I suspect that their now dry, ugly environments have made them considerably more exploitatively miserable to each other.  I think serious landscape repair works are an unknown preventative for [[war]]!


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[dragon]: dragon "Dragon"
[Forests-on-the-Water]: Forests-on-the-Water "Forests-on-the-Water"
[geo-engineering]: geo-engineering "Geo-Engineering"
[war]: war "War"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"