# Environmental News Archive

This is for unsorted links to climate news with headlines, potentially also with commentary.  This is for more localist stories than [[Climate News Archive]].

https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2021/feb/14/toxic-plant-chicago-minority-neighborhood-hunger-strike - The Chicago plant that sparked a hunger strike amid environmental racism claims - Commentary:  I *loathe* coincidences.  I would much rather see something like this when I haven't recently worked on a climate justice essay.  Maybe someday I can get my news feeds filtered through an anti-frequentist AI that will only show me stuff unrelated to my own recent activities.  ...anyways, this is interesting on various levels.  An industrial site in an affluent area is being shut down for environmental violations, but rather than driving them out of the city, the government of Chicago is shepherding them south to a poorer part of the city.  The company claims that they'll build their new facility in a way that doesn't damage the environment around it.  The local government claims to believe them.  Local activists, who have already been persistently failing to get environmental conditions taken seriously in their 'fenceline community', are reacting to this with disbelief.  Personally, I just learned that 'fenceline community' is the term for what I rarely tolerate in city simulators: residential zoning next to industrial zoning.  Planting a band of forest instead does so much for pollution control without doing anything to harm industrial productivity; outright maintaining a band of parkland hurts industrial productivity a little bit yet is even better if the budget supports it.

https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2021/may/25/a-huge-surprise-as-giant-river-otter-feared-extinct-in-argentina-pops-up-aoe - ‘A huge surprise’ as giant river otter feared extinct in Argentina pops up - Retrieved 5-31-2021 - Commentary:  Giant otters are cute.  They're very charismatic.  Even though they're giant carnivores, I've read that most of the animal world has no fear of them, as giant otters are far more likely to play with other animals than eat them.  With their thumbs and playful attitudes, I've sometimes wondered if they would evolve sapience in the absence of humanity.

https://www.npr.org/2021/06/02/1002484499/sri-lanka-faces-environmental-disaster-as-ship-full-of-chemicals-starts-sinking - Sri Lanka Faces An Environmental Disaster As A Ship Full Of Chemicals Starts Sinking - Retrieved 6-2-2021 - Commentary:  25 tons of nitric acid... and a leaking hazardous materials container.  Sometimes I feel like the whole world is falling apart.  So then, should we now switch to nuclear tankers, to reduce global warming emissions?  ...yes.  Painfully enough.  Even though some of those will also someday sink.

https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/pesticides-are-killing-the-worlds-soils/ - Pesticides Are Killing the World's Soils - Retrieved 6-4-2021 - Commentary:  I wonder if some of the most essential subterranean organisms could be engineered to resist key pesticides, thereby enhancing those pesticides' ability to protect the desired crop environment.

---
Back to [[news-archive]]