# Es Teq

Main content is at the start of [age-of-wonders-planetfall].  Duplicated here:

 What could the Es-Teq be doing that mechanizes a lover's touch and has an entropic effect on technology?  Well, what is their fixation?  They are the people who become their descendants.  Hm.  What if an advanced society tried to conquer a "defenseless" "primitive" society, but that primitive society had actually developed very happy, stable, and appealing social norms?  That'd be a draining conquest.  The conquerers would win, but they would be shedding compassionate defenders like a rainstorm sheds water before, during, and afterwards.  What kind of victory is that?  The subsequent blending of those two societies is hardly guaranteed to actually destroy a people with very happy, stable, and appealing social norms... the people using them will try to defend them while the people they're being defended against will be trying to adopt them!

When these societies blur together, the primitives who were helpless before military force are hardly guaranteed to be destroyed amidst assimilation.  Their norms will win, their descendants will survive, and their spirits will consume the minds of those who conquered them.  It's just... those norms didn't uphold the technology of their conquerers, did it?  The primitive society is likely to end up the beneficiary of a technological transfer, while the conquering society risks losing modes of thought that it required to defend its advanced development.

That's [[Es-Teq]].  They have their fingers on the unstoppable tide that flows beneath the battlefield, and their entropic weapons are the ghosts of love and beauty which infest their lands.  If your society's machinery is at odds with that beauty, your peoples' spirits will reject themselves in defense of it.

# Linked By
[[age-of-wonders-planetfall]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[age-of-wonders-planetfall]: age-of-wonders-planetfall "Age of Wonders Planetfall"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"