# Exogenous Mitochondria

It's possible to add [[mitochondria]] to the body.  Cells seem to uptake free-floating mitochondria from the extracellular medium, and to incorporate such acquired mitochondria readily into their metabolism.  This opens up the possibility of using mitochondria as a treatment tool.

I suspect that it would be helpful if hospitals kept supplies of transfusable exogenous mitochondria on hand for treating emergencies related to [[ischemic-tissues]].  To this end, I would like to demonstrate the feasibility of bacterial cultivation as a source of large quantities of intact transfusable mitochondria.  This is the first of my [[mitochondrial-experimental-proposals]].

Blue sky concepts:
I wonder if exogenous mitochondria could be used preparatively to prevent injury from stroke; I've added an entry to [[imagine-a-brain-implant]] with this concept.
Could cultivated specific mitochondria be utilized as a protective adjunct to chemotherapy, by cultivating mitochondria with salient resistances and then pushing them to vital cells so that they will better resist the toxins being used against the cancerous cells?
Could intentionally damaged mitochondria be utilized as a form of chemotherapy, inducing apoptotic processes in cells that uptake them?
Can metabolism be accelerated through establishing conditions for preferential xenomitochondria in multicellular lifeforms?  This could have applications in agriculture, healthcare, and athletic doping, in declining order of salience; this is an unscientific judgment as it is founded on an intuition that plants are most likely to gain from xenomitochondria evolved under different conditions.  More scientifically, it would be easiest to test early xenomitochondria on simple plantlife.  The concept here is, can a multicellular lifeform be induced to change its mitochondrial balance through treatment early in life, thereafter maintaining its new mitochondria population of its own processes?  If this can be done, can adjusting the mitochondrial DNA through mitochondria sourced from other species (xenomitochondria) achieve therapeutic outcomes beneficial to the recipient species?
If exogenous mitochondria could be delivered alongside necessary medical injuries (injections, incisions), they may reduce unnecessary cellular injuries in the region through supporting the resilience of cells proximate to the site of injury.  The feasibility of this depends on the productive potential of mitochondrial growth acceleration, and on the ease of delivery attainable for the mitochondria.
Can a transport serum be devised to move mitochondria around outside of the body?  How necessary is it?  How resilient are mitochondria?  If I succeed at reproducing mitochondrial lines, I may be able to perform wastage experiments in which the deterioration of mitochondrial populations is observed under varying conditions to better identify preservation requirements.  Could I also selectively breed for highly transportable populations of transfusable xenomitochondria?
Can the preferred operating temperatures of multicellular organisms be adjusted through adjusting their mitochondrial population?  This may have applications to cryonics.  Probably a foolish thought...
Can cells in the body be engineered into new specialized mitochondrial factory cells whose function is to maintain within themselves ideal conditions for mitochondrial replication, with the resulting mitochondria then distributed to other cells?  Reading about yeast without mitochondria made me wonder if it would be possible to engineer cells the other way, so that they are only about mitochondria, which seems to me a valid support function for multicellular life forms that evolution hasn't made for us.
Are intrinsic mitochondria actually the best for every species?  Are there any species with endemic deficits in their mitochondrial DNA quality relative to a hypothetical optimum if they had the best mitochondria in nature, for their specific application?
Does specific mitochondrial DNA alter disease susceptibility through altering the protein dynamics of the host cell?  Can mitochondria-targeting therapies alter the expression of other diseases?
If transfusable mitochondria could be produced in very large numbers, could repeated treatment with exogenous mitochondria treat diseases based on mitochondrial malfunction, such as Parkinson's Disease?  I'm imagining a process analagous to dialysis to try to diffuse the supply far enough through the body, though this is a non-technical imagination, as I remain unfamiliar with the actual methods associated with examining these very preliminary contemplations.
Do mitochondria affect allergy susceptibility?  This one is a blind-thrown dart.
Do extremophiles have unusually adapted mitochondria in order to survive in their conditions?  Can these mitochondria be adapted to the metabolisms of other lifeforms (replacement of key proteins) without destroying their unusual adaptations?  If so, can they be utilized in some form of exogenous mitochondria therapy to alter the performance and survivability of cells in extreme conditions?  This is a VERY blue sky thought, but imagine if [[martian]] life support requirements could be eased with regular transfusions of xenomitochondria.  More moderately, what if establishing a Martian biosphere could be eased/accelerated via microbes altered with extremophilic mitochondria engineering?
Could engineered avian mitochondria be used to accelerate aerobic metabolism in other animals?  How could operating body temperature be kept within safe boundaries, if so?  Conversely, could mitochondria using particularly low-active aerobic metabolism be useful for resilience?  What happens to cells which bear mixed populations of mitochondria adapted to functioning at different metabolic rates?  This is definitely a question that should start in a petri dish.
Could enthusiastically high-rate mitochondria from other lifeforms be back-ported to bioreactor yeast strains in order to increase the replicative productivity of the bioreactor yeast in the presence of oxygenated media and glucose, thereby increasing the productivity of production systems reliant on such yeast populations?  This could lower the price of insulin, at the least!  Relatedly, could this be done to algae in order to increase its growth rate?  Could it be done to plants?
Would adjusting plants to have accelerated cellular respiration increase or decrease their ability to pull carbon from the atmosphere?
Can the competitive advantage of different mtDNA structures within the cellular environment be manipulated in order to cause different mtDNA to survive within a cell?  Competitively replicating mitochondria should be easier to transfuse, reducing the need for exotic preparation and potential cellular injury to make transfusion successful.
Do blood transfusions already transfer mitochondria from donor to recipient?
