#Feather-Integument

I'm pretty sure I'm not supposed to put my notes on this in the public.  I'll have to talk to others on the project about how much I can talk about.  Yet I've been frustrated by not knowing where to go, and recording my ideas tends to help.  Since I have no privacy *anyways*, publishing is a way to increase the chance that people who *don't* hate me will also see my notes...  So...  Hopefully I can record some of what I'm doing on this project in the open, free-form, as I work on it.

Preliminary discussion on the approval looks promising.  So I'll record one thought, at the least.  It looks to me like getting feathers to take root in human skin could be done with homogenized integument transplants from suitable avian donors, if the human recipient had first been genetically modified to have skin whose protein constitution is supportive rather than suppressive of feather development.  That gene modification package would also cause all the hair on the body of the human in question to fall out, both head and body hair, so that the bearer of the modifications would have smooth, hairless skin.  Figuring out which genes map to which suppressive effects sounds like a twenty year research project working with microfluidics chips to test different gene modification packages... and I'm concerned that the resulting body would need new implants every time a feather fell out... but the metamorphosis looks theoretically possible to me.

---
Back to [[authors-nonfiction]]