A trauma node.

I play NationStates.  I don't consider this a voluntary connection, but it will be some distance in these words before I explain that.  I found it innocently, but then I noticed two things.  When I had played it for a while, I noticed that I had seen references to it in many suspect areas, being wielded by extremely unusually abusive and manipulative people who used the shield of art as a justification to psychologically abuse others.  Secondly, it's really obnoxiously abusive itself.  I've had a lifelong interest in politics.  I don't believe it always has to be a topic that divides people.

As a human child, prior to awakening, I loved listening to my father talk about politics.  It was one of the sources of good experience in a bad childhood.  My father was a strange case.  He taught me to value progress, change, and new ways of being; he spoke of these things, and also of there being a place for all people in society.  The impression that he gave was not that "everyone has a place, because society is well-ordered".  It was that "everyone has a place, because society is broad and benevolent".  He spoke of defending the weak without reference to cultural materials.

He didn't praise himself, and yet the substance of his personal life reminds me of the substance of his words.  I can't think about his conviction that everyone has a place without being reminded of the way that he protected people who were *awful* to him.  Twice he came home injured by fighting, and spat curses at his "thuggish" and "corrupt" union.  I say he protected them; this is no exception.  He wasn't wishing death on them.  Usually his angry self was disconnected from his more intelligent, peaceful side, but this time he was angry as anything and making the very intelligent complaint that violence proves nothing.  He changed his position in neither dispute, but just asserted the same thing more angrily... 'the same thing more angrily' being in these stories the importance of peaceful dispute resolution as a function of unions!  Both times he bent the union towards him, and of course he did; as far as I can piece together, his colleagues WERE the people who he was protecting as the downtrodden.

He loved the people who had hurt him and he believed that they were good people.  His words about his friends and colleagues sound bitter in my memory, but even as I question his loyalty, I feel impressed by his virtue.  Although, I may not be quite impressed enough to resist likening him to a [[Celestian]] [[Shakarn]] from 
[[Age-of-Wonders-Planetfall]].  He was out there saving stupid people working with heavy machinery.  His stories of his workplace behavior gave me the impression that he was at work a strong and angry man with the safety regulations memorized, who was good at holding his tongue until he was exactly correct to intervene.  Imagining someone out there doing the right thing with every muscle tensed, WHILE they are putting up a socially useful facade of themselves?  That's a Shakarn Celestian in their element, the moment when a shapeshifting lizard with blazing hands pulls someone out of danger.  That seemed to be what he wanted to be doing.

He was a person who could value 'mechanisms of peaceful dispute resolution' as a function of organizations.  His mind could parse that and love it.  In private, he spoke intelligently of a lot of other things that his coworkers wouldn't have expected him to talk about.  He believed in the preventative study of war and the loving defense of a peacetime society.  He believed in finding common ground with those who loved their nations as he loved his nation; patriotic pacifism, in other words.  He occasionally discussed fluctuations in agricultural commodities markets, which I found hard to follow but especially impressive.  He wasn't merely unthreatened by technological and social progress, he was impressed by it... just not where his friends could catch him being impressed by it.  Infiltrator.

My mom was interested in politics, too.  I felt ambivalent about the subject in her hands, but she was only tramautic with it a very few times.  (Her epic rant about the civilization-defending importance of licensing law drove me to anarchism in rejection of it.)  It was a subject of shared interest between us.  She was at her best when she was talking about things nearer the numbers than social issues.  Her environmentalism was better than her feminism, her takes on government budgets were better than her environmentalism, and in the rare occasion that the subject caught her interest, her treatment of the commodities markets was better than my father's.

I learned a little bit of manipulation just trying to get these two to talk more about the stuff I liked as a kid (commodities markets, international politics, scientific progress, why people of every nation are awesome) and less about the stuff I didn't like (dad: stories about work or the people he liked to invite over for dinner, mom: how employers were too misogynistic to pay her what she was worth as a chemist).  Sometimes I think about the kind of things I liked and that were happiest at home, and I wonder what kind of person I would've become if I'd had less violence at school and less burden from my bad metabolism.  Did humanity lose the opportunity to have someone who would've happily spent decades obsessing about commodity values?

As a [[dragon]] in another world, I had developed a political interest as well.  Angrily resigned to the ruin of my life, I settled in a human community, took an ordinary human-ish job as a graveyard keeper, and found a connection with local governance by occasionally descending unsolicited to give irritable yet peace-defending advice to an irritable yet peace-defending human aristocrat.  I also ate a few people who I caught stealing from the hovels of the peasantry.  I thought I was getting away with it, which in hindsight, was stupid of me.  There's no way that community didn't figure out "stop stealing or the graveyard dragon will catch and eat you" was the actual rule in play.

I also thought I was getting away with a good deed, removing secretly evil people without traumatizing the decent, but I've since come to feel traumatically remorsefully over doing it.  Vigilantism isn't ethical to begin with, and murderous [[cannibalism]] is a horribly disproportionate punishment for petty thievery.  It wasn't the first time I'd ever eaten someone, and it never occurred to me in that lifetime to think about it as cannibalism; I only realized that I should define cannibalism by sapience after I'd thought about it for a good long while as a human [[otherkin]].  I have weird personal scarring on the cannibalism issue, and it's not totally a mystery to me that I've earned some nightmares in my lifetimes.  This is kind of a dragon thing, I think.  I'm simultaneously saying, "Dragons aren't that evil!" and also, "Yes, I've done some of the more appalling things that humans kill each other for."

Well.  I died in that graveyard, so hopefully the sins of that life can be left in it.

When I awoke on Earth, I did so initially without memory.  I knew myself as a dragon, my name was... something.  I was... someone.  I had become human, I could tell at once; I'd not only seen humans aplenty, I'd worn their form as a shapeshifter.  I was commonly surrounded by humans towards the end of my prior lifetime.  My initial response was a mixture of disappointment and cautious optimism; it hadn't set in just yet how fatigued and pained the body was, and I thought, "Well, I had been getting old enough that I was starting to lose my memory.  This isn't the afterlife I would've wanted, but at least I'm still as much myself as I was.  I have youth here and I can get stronger."  Subsequently, memory trickled back in on both sides.  As a dragon I remembered my name, my embarrassing life history, the society I loved...  And I recovered the memory skein, and questionably the identity, of the human who precededed me.  I have extreme sympathy for that child.

Back to NationStates.  It presents a constantly insulting model of politics.  The player gets minimal control over their nation, has to act exclusively on what dilemmas get brought to them, and can only pick from among the offered options.  No assistance is offered in recording the history of each nation or differentiating it vs its neighbors.  The tools of extensive deliberation are extensively withheld.  Past decisions are referenced rarely and with extreme hatreds.  Quite frankly, it resembles the political expectations of people who treated me abominably when I wanted to talk about the topics that appealed to me as a child, like accounting, science, and philosophy...

I wonder how long it will take humanity to realize that they could grow forests on the water.


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[dragon]: dragon "Dragon"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"