# Geo-Engineering

Changing the environment requires changing the environment.  Defining geo-engineering wholly in terms of disruptive heavy metal alterations seems inappropriate.  A lot of the most necessary work in this field is literally more like digging ditches and filling them back in again.  For instance, imagine the act of digging a ditch, filling it with rottable material, and then spraying it with fungal spores that would thrive in that particular kind of rottable material.  Doing that should tend to be a long-term gift to the environment in any region.

A lot of long-term variables in the environment come down to either soil quality or water availability, and the two are heavily interlinked as well.  Moist climates are the product of a functioning water cycle, and to my thinking at least the critical components of the water cycle are the trees and fungi in those environments.  Trees respire water skywards, and fungi provide nontoxic spores for cloud condensation to start around.  Together they create the misty forest effect.  Yet what lies underneath that misty forest?  There must be soil good enough to grow a forest in!  Heavy propagation of fungus improves both soil quality and the water cycle.

That misty forest cloudcover which a fungal-focused ecological attitude would promote is also the most cooling kind of cloudcover.  It forms low to the ground where its effect is least like trapping heat and most like reflecting it away.  I think humanity needs to be doing more to rectify microclimes in order to succeed against issues threatening global [[environmental-collapse]].

New subtopic:
[[Algae-farming-for-soil-quality]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[environmental-collapse]: environmental-collapse "Environmental Collapse"
[Algae-farming-for-soil-quality]: algae-farming-for-soil-quality "Algae Farming for Soil Quality"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"