# Hedonology

Imagine if everything healthy tasted good, and exercise felt pleasurable instead of torturous.  More broadly, imagine if labor was life-affirming, ordinary social environments protected peoples' happiness, and doing the right thing was also fun.  If all of this sounds like the world you live in, God loves you very much.  For everyone else, hedonology is the effort to create that world and help more people live in it.

A society where peoples' intuitions are functional and well-served would be extremely stably self-ordering.  That's why great swathes of frivolous endeavor such as producing athletic equipment and making healthy foods tasty are important to society, because they help make society organize itself into a functioning form without the need of great stresses distorting peoples' decision-making processes.

Although it's a form of the pursuit of scientific empowerment, hedonology has a great competitor within science itself, which is [[exploited-hyperpalatability]].  Where hedonology tries to reward peoples' intuitions and bring them in line with long-term prosperity, hyperpalatability research tries to exploit those intuitions whether that's beneficial or not.  Hyperpalatability research is more values-neutral; it's *not* evil, because note that hedonology requires access to the same information!  The role of hyperpalatability as a competitor to hedonology can be seen in this contrast: Restaurant A uses hyperpalatability information to make unhealthy food more addictive, while Restaurant B uses hyperpalatability information to make healthy food more addictive.  It's still manipulated addictiveness either way, but a society that promotes the addictiveness of healthy food requires considerably less force and inefficiency to also be healthy than a society which promotes the addictiveness of unhealthy food.  Unfortunately, exploited hyperpalatability is *easier* than hedonology.  Hyperpalatable experiences seem to be negatively biased in origin.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[exploited-hyperpalatability]: exploited-hyperpalatability.md "Exploited Hyperpalatability"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"