# Imagine a Brain Implant

This will be a list of all imagine-a-brain-implement moments throughout my notes.  I'll record them here and link back to the node where they were first described.

Imagine a brain implant that:
1.  Scavenges fatigue chemicals during the day (to improve peak productivity) and releases them in the evening (to increase the regularity of rest states). ([[night-and-day]])
2.  Maintains a reservoir of exogenous mitochondria and dumps them in the event of a stroke to mitigate ischemic brain damage. ([[exogenous-mitochondria]])
3.  Taste-sense interceptor that does additional processing and reports its findings, permitting the bearer of the implant to experience additional layers of precision and detail in their sense of taste.  Beyond gourmand applications, this would also increase resistance to biochemical hazards (poisons and pathogens) through earlier, more accurate detection of conditions indicative of them or amenable to their proliferation.  Voluntary consciousness networking may also utilize this data for shared hedonics, performance-optimizing nutrition, or general health policy, whereas involuntary consciousness networking may use it for exploitation, torture, or assassination through manipulation of observed hyperpalatability (poison the foods that people like most).  ([[Hedonology]])
4.  Blocks all hunger unless two people with the same type of implant agree to turn it off at the same time, reinforcing the social function of eating and preventing isolated snacking behaviors.  Turns back on after defined interval from being turned off (an hour?).  For safety reasons, the implant also turns off automatically if it isn't toggled manually for three days, and won't reboot while its owner is fasting (or starving).
5.  Stores mood-regulating chemicals and releases them in response to stressors, emulating (and extending) natural brain processes to accommodate stressors more unique to civilization than the brain was evolved for. [[cannabis]]
6.  Scans brain state for skill-and-mood data; replays skill-specific observed optima, so that tasks feel as natural and fun as they did at their best.  Assists with achieving and maintaining a flow state.  May impair creativity of output through encouraging repeat performance; however, by the same process, it would improve the consistency of output within well-defined efforts.  Ideally should enable calibration over time to accelerate skill development; similarly, ideally would help novices discover new talents by locating and encouraging the development of skill-related neural structures.  This is an integrated neural mesh concept.  If the output from these implants was generalizable, it could enable advances in business methods and rehabilitative medicine.
7.  Links minds together for experiential purposes, such as viewing art together.  I'm not the happiest with technotelepathy concepts in general, but I know it's a necessary technology.  I liked the CEL Cradles from Beyond Earth... especially if we can avoid corrupting them with intelligence agency exploitation IRL.
8.  An implant that scans for and blocks recall of annoying songs.  More generally, something that scans for and blocks annoying thoughts.  This has been suggested by other people before and I agree that it'd be nice.  I also think it would have major psychotherapeutic applications generally beneficial for public order.  I'm aware however of a public safety issue with this proposal, because it could be used to resolve certain patterns of psychological scarring typical in individuals who've committed murders.  That sounds good and rehabilitative until you realize that it would make them more competent *as* murderers.  To prevent that, I'd recommend that consumer implementations of this hardware obligate publishing the thought-block list to an online server, and that the implant should always disengage for part of the day while reporting to the person wearing it about which of its blocks were active during the day, and when.  Note that if this implant is developed for any purposes, police will someday have to deal with black market versions of this implant specialized for making criminals not think about crimes they've committed in order to ensure that they won't betray themselves by accident.  Since unlawful organizations are also capable of R&D, if this class of implant is NOT developed first for civilian use, there are likely to be several years in which clueless police have to deal with the black market version without having been warned about its existence!

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[night-and-day]: night-and-day "night-and-day"
[exogenous-mitochondria]: exogenous-mitochondria "Exogenous Mitochondria"
[Hedonology]: hedonology "Hedonology"
[cannabis]: cannabis "cannabis"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"