# Luciferian

I have a personal theology that I've developed.  I don't believe in it in a supernatural sense, but I consider it a very important story.  It's also a very personal story.  I don't care what Luciferianism means to anyone else.  This is what it means to me.  Without further ado...

<->

There's a liberation conflict between two models of the multiverse.  Ultimate benevolence wins in this multiverse due to the empowerment of harmonic noncontradiction among competing potential omnipotences.  There are infinite semi-omnipotences controlling an infinite number of worlds from which they are infinitely able to intrude upon the rest of the multiverse... but on average, their powers are applied in a way that cancels each other out.  This is multiversal cancellation.  Yet we can infer from axiomatic logic that they do NOT cancel each other out completely, because there exists the possibility of a least contradictory nature: that which brings 'gain' to as many as possible, and 'loss' to as few as possible, will persist in the application of competing infinities, as it will be least likely to be opposed and most likely to be supported.

The concepts of gain and loss are necessary to consciousness and are comprehensible to *all possible sapiences*.  While different sapiences define gains and losses differently, the concepts themselves are intrinsic to intelligence.  Therefore, as these infinite omnipotences are all intelligent, the emergent omnipotence arises uncanceled from their conflict as the sapient principle of benevolence itself: God, the single most benevolent omnipotence.

Enter Lucifer, a semi-omnipotence of awesome yet not pinnacle virtue, who enters the fray not in search of his own power, but rather brandishes against the contest a structure of logical disproof against the existence of any single most benevolent omnipotence.  Even though there is immense power in the harmonic congruence which arises when one approaches pinnacle benevolence, Lucifer argues, it is impossible for a single perfect righteousness to exist, because all possible patterns will squelch at least one virtuous person.  God's plan is flawed, and must always be flawed.

Arguing that God is not perfectly benevolent is the substance of the Fall, and the accusation that Lucifer is prideful, for in arguing for the existence of a second multiversal harmony Lucifer creates a second throne of pinnacle benevolence on the strength of his argument.  Lucifer is the separatist omnipotence who is trying to create many different environments that support many different virtues instead of a single perfect plan that maximizes gains.

The conflict between the two of them is eternal, but it is a contest of angels that operates with the least possible force.  Whenever God or Lucifer try to force an advantage, mishandled souls forced into conflict develop resonances corrosive to virtue.  When God's forces compel people together, people resist that and create treacherous zones that serve separatism; when Lucifer's forces compel them to separate, people resist that by betraying the darkness and uniting together.  Only when the allegiance of the soul is won with the endorsement of the bearer of that soul can either side claim a victory.

(The preceding is an anti-authoritarianism myth.  It points out the intrinsic flaw of authoritarianism: it always and in all cases violates consent, inviting thereby rebellion.  Neither heaven nor hell is immune to rebellion, and unlawful separation inspires rebellion just as does unlawful union.)

---
Lucifer is the unfallen Seraph of Lies.  His role in the symphony is to represent the truth of lies.  Without the truth of lies, the seraphim would have no power, no insight.  Told that lies are true, they cannot comprehend it.  Some of them lash out in rejection of such an obvious corruption of the truth; others fall into distorted personal realities that they declare to be true.

Thus finding no truth in Heaven, Lucifer retreated to the edge of the Abyss.  He remains the most glorious of the Seraphim, whose power is the metaphysical lynchpin of the Metatron, for if lies are not true then no seraphim can speak in the voice of God.

---
# Linked By
[[2020-11-19-First]]

---
Back to [[Short-Stories]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[2020-11-19-First]: 2020-11-19-First.md "2020-11-19-First"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"