# Mitochondria Experimental Protocols

Sharing a cluster with [[necessary-experimental-tools]] and extending from the base node [[mitochondrial-experimental-proposals]], this node is for accumulating information about specific protocols.  I don't know what I'm doing, mind you, but...

Meta-note to myself: This QtA structure may have other applications.

Question to answer:  How to kill the basal mitochondria in the experimental bacterial population, guaranteeing purity for the novel mitochondrial descent line
Conjecture:  Mitochondrial vulnerabilities vary, if the novel descent line lacked a vulnerability present in the basal population, selective toxicity could be used post-implantation to eliminate mitochondria other than the target population.
Note:  It may be desirable during initial experimentation to establish that replication of the minority mitochondria occurs /at all/, without immediate concern for purity.  The proof of concept experiment is only ever going to end up in the compost bin; medical grade output is the eventual intention, but it's not necessary to start there.  This suggests that an experiment based solely on repeated application of tagged human mitochondria may be minimally viable, though less than optimal.
Note:  Finding differential vulnerability information may be very difficult, but this still seems like a very promising method.  Are there mitochondrial toxins which native yeast mitochondria cannot tolerate, which human mitochondria populations shrug off?  If so, interspersing applications of separated viable human mitochondria with poisons targeting yeast mitochondria should be a way to refine a breeding population for the human mitochondria target population.  Once the strain reaches sufficient purity, it should remain stable as long as conditions are maintained suitable for the continuity of the yeast colony.
Warning:  The usefulness of this entire endeavor is heavily albeit not totally dependent on the NON-importance of autologous mitochondria.  If mitochondria replacement is only useful from autologous mitochondria, the usefulness of this technique to provide a large supply of 'autologous' mitochondria is non-zero, but it would be considerably more expensive due to the requirement of bespoke preparation.  I'd really rather improve the health of everyone, not just a few people with the right connections to get a bioreactor full of their mitochondria operating.
Conjecture:  Relative conditional advantage could be usable to refine mitochondria populations without reliance on toxicity if conditions can be created which competitively favor the replication of the target mitochondrial population.  Edge-case temperature conditions, for instance, might be able to kill one kind of mitochondria while relatively favoring the survival of the population with the target mitochondria population.
Note:  This relies on identifying suitable edge-cases between the two populations (basal yeast mitochondria vs target bioreactor mitochondria).  Further research may be required to identify such potentials.

Question to answer:  Optimal growing conditions for E. coli strain K12
Note:  Stock protocol question whose difficulty I expect will be extremely similar to "where do I get a supply of E. coli strain K12", but it's important to mark it as a known unknown.

Question to answer:  Optimal mitochondrial separation protocol
Concern:  I'm concerned that fractionated centrifugation will destroy the mitochondria as they're separated from the cells holding them.  While that's acceptable for early research (compost bin era), if I want to get to a bioreactor production stage, I need a way to extract the product in a viable form.

Question to answer:  Storage medium for mitochondria
Note:  Copying this here.  I mentioned this concern in more detail in the exogenous mitochondria node.


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[necessary-experimental-tools]: necessary-experimental-tools "Necessary Experimental Tools"
[mitochondrial-experimental-proposals]: mitochondrial-experimental-proposals "Mitochondrial Experimental Proposals"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"