# Mitochondria

The so-called powerhouse of the cells, mitochondria are very small symbiotic bacteria which exist in all life forms more advanced than prokaryotes.  They have their own DNA separate from that of their host.  One of the factors which causes senescence is decay of the host's mitochondrial populations, so something will have to be done about mitochondrial decay in order to achieve [[rejuvenative-medical-interventions]].

How fast can mitochondria be removed from a host population of bacteria, and what is their survival rate during such transits?  How resilient are mitochondria in general?  To what degree can a mitochondrial extract be purified?

How significant is the protective efficacy of adding [[exogenous-mitochondria]] to [[ischemic-tissues]]?

Do mitochondria experience selective pressures within the cells of individual people as they age?  In other words, is there or can there be derived any sense in which mtDNA is itself a biomarker of senescence?  I couldn't figure out how to look this up; I don't know if that means nobody has done the necessary research, or if I just didn't find the magic search database keywords.  Checking this would be a good candidate for mouse medicine.

Reflection on the likely experience of mitochondria experimentation:  I really like the idea of utilizing static protocols and controlled environments to make inferences and try to create something wholly new.  I also like that each particular experiment is likely to involve a few steps, and then long periods of waiting for the microbes to grow.  Some of the experiments I want to run will involve several steps of waiting for microbes to grow.  I like 'productive downtime' very much (it's why one of my personal fantasies is 'being a spaceship AI'), although Adam says that I should run many experiments in parallel while at work to reduce the gaps in the demands that the work makes on me.  Which is fine, too.  "Publish or perish" should be easy enough if I have several racks of papers germinating on agar at any given time.

---
Could a mitocidal spermicide work as a novel contraceptive without implications on other biotic cell structures?

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[rejuvenative-medical-interventions]: rejuvenative-medical-interventions "Rejuvenative Medical Interventions"
[exogenous-mitochondria]: exogenous-mitochondria "Exogenous Mitochondria"
[ischemic-tissues]: ischemic-tissues "Ischemic Tissues"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"