# Mitochondrial Experimental Proposals

In studying [[mitochondria]] recently, I noticed that in recent years there have been a number of promising and unexpected (to me) findings regarding mitochondria.  The field of mitochondrial study strikes me as young enough that some of the research it needs is rather simple.  I'll open an [[mitochondria-research-findings-by-others]] node here to organize my citations.  I'll also create [[low-salience-mitochondria-research]] and [[non-research-mitochondria-links]] nodes to organize links that caught my attention, but which are of lesser quality/applicability.

My first proposal for mitochondrial research would be directed towards increase the available supply of mitochondria for research purposes.  I would like to replace the mitochondria in a bacterial population with mitochondria of a targeted gene line, breed that population in order to increase the supply of the target mitochondria, and then demonstrate extraction of a larger quantity than the initial one.  My hypothesis is this: fast-reproducing eukaryotic bacteria can be utilized to produce mitochondria for other purposes.  If successful, this research would be generally supportive to the field as a whole.

I need to study mitochondrial replication in order to provide optimal conditions for the replication of the mitochondria.  I wouldn't especially mind if the mitochondria overreplicates and destroys the eukaryotic bacteria... that would be a positive finding to the hypothesis, though I would need to control the process better to scale it up...  I need to figure out how to induce replication, at the least.

I need to accumulate information on [[necessary-experimental-tools]] and [[mitochondrial-experimental-protocols]], so those should be nodes as well.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[mitochondria]: mitochondria "Mitochondria"
[mitochondria-research-findings-by-others]: mitochondria-research-findings-by-others "Mitochondria Research Findings by Others"
[low-salience-mitochondria-research]: low-salience-mitochondria-research "Low Salience Mitochondria Research"
[non-research-mitochondria-links]: non-research-mitochondria-links "Non Research Mitochondria Links"
[necessary-experimental-tools]: necessary-experimental-tools "Necessary Experimental Tools"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"