When my schedule drifts across the night, my focus either coalesces into unsustainable fixation or else it collapses entirely.  The hours of the night are more often wasted hours than anything else.  I haven't fought against my inclination to write all this stuff here.  Watching the node graph form is interesting.

I recently broke a fast because (after two weeks without food) I was worried that my mind wasn't working well due to malnourishment.  I don't think that was actually the issue.  I think my fasting discipline and my work discipline were ruined by the same thing, and my fasting discipline just withstood it for a few days longer than my productivity.  I think the issue was the emotional haze that I spend nights in.

I described this problem in [[2020-11-19_First]], too.  It has a big mindshare in my life for reasons that should be obvious, but just in case they're not: as far as my own existence and ability to contribute to society goes, schedule drift is a problem, and schedule drift that shatters independent productivity is crippling.

I'm not totally at the mercy of this problem... not anymore.  If I take melatonin at 7 PM, planning to go to bed five hours later, it lasts for about as long as Kistaro can avoid making the ritual sound too twee, heh.  Pardon.  That's probably an unfair snipe, as I have no confident insight into why my schedule's good order occasionally breaks down.  I long for more artificial regulatory tools.  [[Imagine-a-brain-implant]] that scavenges fatigue chemicals during the day (to improve peak productivity) and releases them in the evening (to increase the regularity of rest states).

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[2020-11-19_first]: 2020-11-19_First "2020-11-19_First"
[imagine-a-brain-implant]: imagine-a-brain-implant "Imagine a Brain Implant"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"