# Non Research Mitochondria Links

Although this is generically about mitochondria, I currently intend to link this node off of [[mitochondrial-experimental-proposals]] for organizational reasons.  For graph organization reasons, I will also link it to [[mitochondria-research-findings-by-others]] and [[low-salience-mitochondria-research]].

If mitochondria and chloroplasts contain their own DNA, what controls their rate of replication? How much do they depend on their host cell for biochemical machinery?
Question Date: 2001-03-25
http://scienceline.ucsb.edu/getkey.php?key=3242
(I found this while trying to look up information about what controls mitochondrial replication.)

Apparently, HeLa cells are already used for breeding human mitochondrial populations, and I'll have to surpass them in productivity to have a real advance: 
https://www.researchgate.net/post/How-to-avoid-contamination-of-mitochondrial-fraction-with-cytosolic-proteins

I looked up mitochondrial mutations while thinking about the possibility of intracellular competitive replication pressures as a potential source of attributes for mitochondria.  It turns out, mitochondria are enthusiastic mutants.
https://www.nature.com/scitable/topicpage/mtdna-and-mitochondrial-diseases-903/
Quoted:  As previously mentioned, one cell contains numerous mitochondria, and each mitochondrion contains dozens of copies of the mitochondrial genome. Moreover, the mitochondrial genome has a higher mutation rate (about 100-fold higher) than the nuclear genome. This leads to a heterogeneous population of mitochondrial DNA within the same cell, and even within the same mitochondrion; as a result, mitochondria are considered heteroplasmic.
So I think I'm onto something by suspecting that there may be systemic differences between the mtDNA of young people vs the mtDNA of old people, introduced by different competitive pressures applying over time.  I want to do that research!  It can be done on blood samples, right?

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[mitochondrial-experimental-proposals]: mitochondrial-experimental-proposals "Mitochondrial Experimental Proposals"
[mitochondria-research-findings-by-others]: mitochondria-research-findings-by-others "Mitochondria Research Findings by Others"
[low-salience-mitochondria-research]: low-salience-mitochondria-research "Low Salience Mitochondria Research"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"