#Northern-Creche-Confederation 

The Northern Creche Confederation, or more properly "the Defensive Alliance of the Northern Creche Confederation", was the single most widely signed treaty among the [[dragon]]s of my homeworld.  Generally signed in childhood, it was arguably the foundation of our system of explicit social contracts.  'Everyone' was signatory to the alliance pact of the Northern Creche Confederation, and whosoever lived in the Northern Creche Confederation did so in their true forms.  It was our homeland.

In most of that world, dragons were few and secretive.  We were very long-lived shapeshifters.  We lived everywhere, but not as ourselves.  Not as great dragons, but mostly as 'humans'...  Dragons who lived openly, such as the priesthood of the wind goddess, were seen as crazy risk-takers who were probably going to die.

There were humans (whose society fascinated us, but who hated us) and hill raptors (who loved us, but whose society we disliked).  We didn't really consider the lands inhabited by humans or hill raptors to be safe for young dragons.  Humans would kill young dragons, even torture them to death.  I don't remember what the problem with raising dragons around hill raptors was; it wasn't as dire, but there was still something.  We needed somewhere that would be better.  Somewhere that would be truly our own society.  Unbothered by the cold, we went north.

We needed forests.  Just south of the snow line past which trees would not grow, on the northern fringe of the boreal territories, where the winters nevertheless were long and harsh...  That was where we staked our largest, most collectively organized military claim, the defensive alliance to which 'everyone' was signatory.  In that area and only in that area, dragonkind maintained a nation apart, where any encroaching human force would be destroyed by a draconic military.  There were frequent skirmishes despite the extreme environment.  Humans have no need to love life before they reproduce, and so in their willingness to inhabit anywhere that they can survivably inhabit...  Well, there wasn't much of value up there to anyone but us, so the Northern Creche Confederation was mostly faced with the ambitions of adventuring bands who thought they could hunt dragons and the threat of peasant rabble who thought they could settle unobserved.

None of that was a substantial threat.  We could have handled far worse.  I'm not sure any army in that world could have threatened our control of the northern fringe of the map.  We weren't willing to be living siege engines... for any OTHER cause.  Only the Northern Creche Confederation could muster an army of dragons.  We, in turn, were frustrated and resentful that our one openly-ruled territory, which was built on *terrible* land, was subject to any challenge at all.  Why were human governments so intent on extinguishing draconity that they wanted to remove us even from the frozen north?

Well...  it was a bastion of tranquility, regardless.  No dragon had to be 'a shapeshifter' there.  All could wear their true forms for decades at a time, were they drawn actively to the support of the region, or dwelling there to raise hatchlings.

The territories of the Northern Creche Confederation were different from dragon territories elsewhere in the world.  They were temporary holdings kept in trust.  Conventional wisdom was that a clutch of young dragons needed protection for fifty years, so that was the holding period of a northern territory.  After that, our families tended to disperse.  Adults went back to their former (southern, contested) territories, while young dragons tried to secure their first territories in the near-North, where human settlement was sparse and the support of the Creche Confederation was available if necessary.  True adult territories were held indefinitely, but territories in the near-North were informally transitory, and we were expected to move on after a century or two.

Likely patterned after the Defensive Alliance of the Northern Creche Confederation, most dragon communities were the Defensive Alliance of Something-or-Other, and the foundation of each community was therefore its collective defense pact.  We were all the militia, sworn to defend one another.  The community I loved was technically styled "the Defensive Alliance of the Wheel", because we thought the arrangement of our territories looked like spokes on a wheel, with collectively-held neutral territories at the hub and rim of the wheel.