# Notes on Potential Applicability of RNA Vaccination to Treatment of Schizophrenia

While researching RNA vaccination for authoring [[envs100disc4-pandemicblues]], I tripped on some indications that RNA vaccination may have applicability to the treatment of arthritis, such as this: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20435931/ (Zheng X.  Suzuki, M.  Ichim, TE.  Zhang, X.  Sun, H.  Zhu, F.  Shunnar, A.  Garcia, B.  Inman, RD.  Min, W.  (2010, Jun 1)  Treatment of autoimmune arthritis using RNA interference-modulated dendritic cells.  *Journal of Immunology*.  Retrieved 2021-2-4.  Be warned that I haven't read it closely yet).  I didn't immediately make this notes archive at the time that I started plotting to potentially author this essay, and unfortunately I don't recall what made me think of looking for a potential treatment target in schizophrenia using RNA vaccination techniques.  (I think I may've been trying to find ways to better extend medical care in a fully enabling form to more of the most detested people in society.)  Yet when the thought recurred to me sans its inspiration, I did recall that schizophrenia is potentially a neuroinflammatory disorder.  Inflammatory functions are a very major component of pathogenesis in arthritis.  Could there be a similar antibody problem as occurs in arthritis, and furthermore could RNA vaccination hold the key to resolving such antibody problems in the general case?  If so, then RNA vaccination could be a technology yielding new special case antipsychotics with exceptionally adaptive qualities... indeed, it could hold the potential for an outright general cure.  I ought to investigate it, and this file shall for assembling my investigation, with ideally the production of a densely-cited essay in the output of my work.

---
Looking at this proposal to use RNA manipulation to vaccinate against collagen autoimmunity, it talks about knocking down CD40, CD80, and CD86.  CD40 is Cluster of Differentiation 40, a costimulatory protein found on antigen-presenting cells.  The clusters of differentiation are designated cell surface molecules providing targets for immunophenotyping cells.  Immunophenotyping is a technique used to study the protein expressed by cells.  It involves using fluorophore-conjugated antibodies to probe and stain target cells, thereby phenotyping the different cells in a heterogenous sample.  I am not sure what was meant by "knocking down" those three target clusters of differentiation.

Fortunately, Unpaywall to the rescue...  voila.  I have research I wouldn't ordinarily be able to access, and I can see what might be hiding behind the verbiage of the abstract.

It looks like "knocking down" a cluster of differentiation is a common term found in many papers which refers to inhibiting its expression on the surface of cells.  This ranges from full inhibition (knocked down CD no longer found on cells) to partial inhibition (incidence rate of knocked down CD reduced).  I'm very concerned that knocking down autoantigen reactive sites might also result in disease susceptibility through lost reactivity with actual pathogens, but that concern doesn't have to stop me from assembling relevant research information to establish the potential feasibility of a new treatment method.

---
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5539405/ (Dalmau, J.  Geis, C.  Graus, F.  (2017, Mar 15)  Audoantibodies to Synaptic Receptors and Neuronal Cell Surface proteins in Autoimmune Diseases of the Central Nervous System.  *Physiology Review*.  Retrieved 2021-2-4.)

This is interesting as a general review of the concept of autoantibodies to synaptic receptors as a cause of autoimmune diseases of the central nervous system.  It doesn't help me attest to schizophrenia as having a fundamentally autoimmune-mediated cause, which is a current research objective of mine for this essay.  I would like to be able to state directly in my draft why that is or is not the case, with at least one nice little [] by it to indicate my sincerity with a strong relevant link.

---
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6097895/ (Severance, EG.  Dickerson, FB.  Yolken, RH.  (2018, Sep)  Autoimmune phenotypes in schizophrenia reveal novel treatment targets.  *Pharmacology and Therapeutics.*  Retrieved 2021-2-4.)

This looks like someone thinking in a similar vein to what I was thinking, without having access to prospective new technologies for attacking this novel treatment target.  This is the kind of thing I was looking for.


---
Back to [[Author's Nonfiction]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[envs100disc4-pandemicblues]: envs100disc4-pandemicblues "Envs100disc4 PandemicBlues"
[Author's Nonfiction]: authors-nonfiction "Author's Nonfiction"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"