# Notes on Recombinant Protein Construction

While studying RNA vaccines lately, I've become fixated on the question of how antigenic surface proteins are generated.  How do researchers discover which sequence of RNA will produce which specific surface spikes on cells?  While nominally studying tolerogenic dendritic cells ([[notes-on-tolerogenic-dendritic-cells]]), I realized that I also need to be studying the invention processes used to generate recombinant proteins.

Unless I've made an error in designating this page (very possible), all of the antigenic surfaces that I'm interested in studying are themselves proteins.  They're bits of the protein structures of cells after being pulled apart and put back together again by cellular machinery.  Their nature as proteins is why we can also discover RNA strands which code for their creation.  The question of *how* we discover how to code for an antigenic surface must therefore be a question about how we invent recombinant proteins.  Once we've reinvented a protein, we can use it to sensitize or (I would propose, via tolerogenesis) desensitize the immune system as we see fit, at least within the limits of the immune system's existing cellular interfaces.

I should like to figure out the process of invention for this so that I can add it to my General Protocol.  This would be a convenient thing to reduce to procedure.

---

I am cognitively bouncing off of this task.  I can tell what I'm doing, mentally.  I'm searching for how to provide a better Y than unknown values of Y for 'I want to produce recombinant antigen surface X, for arbitrary values of X' and 'the first place I need to look is Y, for unknown values of Y'.  If I already knew this task, I would already know where to look for information about how to begin producing a recombinant protein.

---
https://www.cusabio.com/c-20679.html (Production of Recombinant Protein.  (n.d.)  *Cusabio.com*.  Retrieved 12-2-13.)

This source is about how recombinant proteins are produced, but not about how they are invented.

I'm including this as much to attest for my having gone anywhere as for it being a good start.  The way that this talks about expressing DNA is very straightforward about the application of DNA, but still leaves me mystified about how to identify gene sequences.  The more I study, the more I know of what I don't know.

---
https://www.nature.com/scitable/topicpage/the-proteome-discovering-the-structure-and-function-613/ (Adams, J.  (2008.)  THe Proteome: Discovering the Structure and Function of Proteins.  *Nature*.)

This is something of an overview of protein environments.  Proteomics must be the kind of thing that I'm trying to study here.  I want to master the proteomics of tolerogenic dendritic cells so that I can author a protocol for solving one kind of immunosenesence.  More specifically to this file, I want to learn how specific proteins are identified as being encoded for by specific genes.  (Directing the construction of RNA-encoded proteins is the faculty which RNA vaccination relies on in dendritic cells by which it can provide antigenic surfaces to professional antigenic presentation cells.)

---
Back to [[Author's Nonfiction]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[notes-on-tolerogenic-dendritic-cells]: notes-on-tolerogenic-dendritic-cells.md "Notes on Tolerogenic Dendritic Cells"
[Author's Nonfiction]: authors-nonfiction.md "Author's Nonfiction"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"