# Notes on Tolerogenic Dendritic Cells

This is a companion file to the essays that I'm currently attempting to write about tolerogenicity, [[a-general-protocol-for-tolerogenic-rna-vaccination]] and [[tolerogenic-rna-vaccination-vs-dendrispecific-rna-vaccination]].  The most promising thing that I've noticed is that I may be able to prove dendrispecificity of RNA vaccines.  I haven't necessarily gotten to it first, but I also haven't found it in the literature yet.  It's an inference I plucked from some raw data.  That's exciting.  And yet...

And yet tolerogenic dendritic cells are an anti-senescence advance, the kind of thing which might by mastery give to all of medicine a little more breathing room by making people healthier in a stable, productive, no-downsides kind of way.  Studying tolerogenic dendritic cells is very exciting and pushing that tech forward is great.  Sure, I'll *also* try to demonstrate that a new technique gains useful features by highly dendrispecific interactions with the immune system, but I don't see a link between dendrispecific RNA vaccinations and full-fledged longevity advances the way I see such a link for tolerogenic RNA vaccinations.

---
http://europepmc.org/backend/ptpmcrender.fcgi?accid=PMC5296314&blobtype=pdf (Takenaka, MC.  Quintana, FJ.  (2017, Feb)  Tolerogenic dendritic cells.  *Seminars in Immunopathology*.  Retrieved 2021-2-9.)

This is a general review document covering potential tolerogenicity scenarios for dendritic cells.  It's a great study resource that talks about the mechanisms of the cells as well as the open questions in the field - at least as of four years ago.  Four years is not huge in medical research chronology; I'm excited by the recency of this material!  

---
Back to [[authors-nonfiction]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[a-general-protocol-for-tolerogenic-rna-vaccination]: a-general-protocol-for-tolerogenic-rna-vaccination "A General Protocol for Tolerogenic RNA Vaccination"
[tolerogenic-rna-vaccination-vs-dendrispecific-rna-vaccination]: tolerogenic-rna-vaccination-vs-dendrispecific-rna-vaccination "Tolerogenic RNA Vaccination Vs Dendrispecific RNA Vaccination"
[authors-nonfiction]: authors-nonfiction "Author's Nonfiction"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"