# Nova Drift

Nova Drift is an astonishing bit of beep-boopery that stole my day on [[2020-11-27-Fourth]].  While enthralling in a flashing lights and explosions sense, it doesn't stimulate my love of societal analysis, my specific creativity in my own projects, nor my research interests.  It's a "bullet hell" title where each run through accumulates very different power-ups on the same core ship.  Not my usual genre, but a few titles catch my interest from it every so rarely.

Most of my top scores involve construct-builds, which I think speaks to my (lack of) skill at the game, since it turns out I'm better off getting some inferior construct to do my fighting for me.  Salvo, flak, and pulse all seem to be the best weapons, which I think may again speak to my lack of skill, given that of those three only the flak requires any aiming whatsoever.  I couldn't quite figure out what the natural advantages of the leviathan body were supposed to be... which saddens me, because I found its long, serpenty form to be very appealing.  The leviathan stands out as the ship least susceptible to knockback and the only body that gains hull points as it levels, but leveling it also makes it steadily more gigantic and hard to keep out of the enemy's lines of fire...  It looks like the only thing the leviathan is good for is extremely technical maneuvers using its tail.  It can potentially curl its tail around to intercept shots that would strike its headpiece, which is worth a 75% damage reduction, but requires great skill with the controls.  (It's also not as good as being in a smaller body and just not getting hit!)  Similarly but more exceptionally, it looks like it could do a lot of damage by striking enemies with its tail, which multiplies its crash damage while insulating it from most of the recoil on that crash damage.  That would actually be very powerful, but it's even harder than using the ship's tail to shield its head!  I only managed tailstrike crashes accidentally.

I don't think I'm really an exceptional gamer.  I find action games interesting in part because of the specific way I'm not good at them.  To a substantial extent, I'm really *not* following the moment to moment events of the game...  I'm trying to refine response heuristics to learn what generally correct behaviors exist under different circumstances.  If I could figure out how to play the game without needing to discern the location of the ship icon at all, I think I would be exceptionally pleased...  The pulse weapon seems to maximize the potential to play in a locationally-agnostic manner.  Using the pulse weapon plus a high-speed crashing build might do it rather literally, but I haven't mastered crashing builds.  I find myself trying to probabilistically define the location of the ship, and to think about the future events on screen like risk-rated probability fields on which my ship's velocity was much more certain than its position...  I seemed to spend a lot of time badly damaged in the game, but it seemed like I didn't usually lose a round until it happened that the predicted probable region of my ship no longer contained my ship.  Thrust-altering mods were helpful in forming this less specific model, and thrust-limiting mods brought it back towards predictability.  Currently, I think I need to get better at modeling screen-wrapping trajectories... and yet I'm tempted to go after the leviathan instead, which due to its very ungainliness seems to require a much more exact awareness of the ship's position at all times.

I don't expect this to be a new fixation; my training method on this game seems likely to be periodic refresh.  That's a pattern where I play a game intensely, abandon it for weeks or months, play it intensely again at some future point, and so forth.  It's not a great or unusual thing for me to think as in the preceding paragraph about a game, though usually I would just run these thoughts 'through the ocean' rather than spending the effort of putting them into words and recording them.  Thoughts that are 'under water' in that way are usually available if I reach for them again, if I ever do, and that's where I store most skills related to videogame playing.  I'm not especially awesome or competitive at any game, but I'm aware that my thoughts continue in some manner on material that is 'under water', since I find that my playing patterns start coming up finer than I put them down if I return to them enough times.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[2020-11-27-fourth]: 2020-11-27-fourth "2020-11-27-Fourth"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"