# Oceanic Mangrove

If you could build a buoyant canopy-bearing water-dependent self-organizing structure on saltwater, which is to say an oceanic floating tree, it would transpire water vapor into the sky.  Although it would also shade its patch of the ocean and disrupt the normal microflora in its vicinity, it would be providing with its bulk nutrients and habitat to the water underneath itself, an important function in the often barren ocean.

Unless I'm very much mistaken, the surface area of a tree would transpire considerably more water than would evaporate from the flat surface area of the ocean itself, even though evaporation is a faster process in a given surface area, because trees have many leaves from which to transpire and every leaf contributes to the transpiration surface area of the tree.

If such a piece of neoflora were possible, and I have not misconceptualized this (I'm aware I have probably erred), it could be used to accelerate the water cycle in coastal areas, preventing droughts and strengthening moisture-dependent biomes along the coast.  It would also promote low-level cloud cover in the coastal area, thus decreasing temperatures, and they would be extracting fresh water from the ocean, thus making it saltier.  The colder, denser water under the mangrove colony would be more inclined to sink, which could be an important tool for modulating ocean currents on Earth.

I'm aware that there's no nutrients with which to build a tree in the open ocean, but I've seen enough doom and gloom about ocean currents to wonder if it might be worth contemplating potential answers to them.  I don't remember ever hearing anyone talk about a potential geo-engineering tool to fix ocean currents, so if the idea that I've presented here is bad, please remember that it's the first such idea I've ever heard.  I think the dearth of nutrients problem with this idea could be resolved by staffing floating colonies of sea-botanists who maintain the ocean mangroves.  Workers tending the roots could feed them to encourage the tree.  They could also build out their platforms to provide designed habitats, and utilize the local resource density (vs the relative desert of the open ocean) of their working environment for aquacultural, oceanographic, or further geo-engineering purposes such as fixing CO2 with fast-growing seaweed and then exporting it to afforestation projects ([[algae-farming-for-soil-quality]]).

Training all those sea-botanists could help supply necessary skills for Martian industry, too.  Over and above my basic belief in the extreme importance of ontogenic control technologies for future industry, I imagine that if people really want to terraform Mars, humanity is going to need hordes and hordes of people who can be delicate with valuable plantlife that has strange needs...  I'd consider buried cities a desirable habitat of themselves, but other people are less thrilled by that!

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[algae-farming-for-soil-quality]: algae-farming-for-soil-quality "Algae Farming for Soil Quality"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"