# Operating Temperature Ranges for Microbes

This is a subpage for [[exogenous-mitochondria]].

If the operational temperature range for microbes were adequately defined, it could be possible to predict which mitochondrial engineering projects are most feasible.  High-rate mitochondria produce greatly increased amounts of heat, which of itself can destroy cells.  In order to use mitochondrial engineering to increase bioreactor output, the optimal temperature of the microbe also has to change...  or... does it?  Maybe tampering with the optimal temperature of the microbe only makes it inappropriately more survivable outside of the lab.  Would it suffice to keep my hummingbird algae bioreactor in refrigeration?

Trying to give hummingbird mitochondria to algae is probably not the best experiment to try first, though if it can be done, I'd love to do it literally... and it's not necessarily irrelevant to consider operating temperature ranges, either.  I need to think about this more.  Observing temperature shifts due to altered mitochondrial metabolism could be an excellent experimental objective for my xenomitochondrial transplant experiments.  I just need to figure out a donor and recipient pairing close enough that protein mismatches don't gimp the mitochondria, far enough that they produce different expected operating temperatures, and yet not so far that they produce nonviable outputs.  I should do this with an unmodified control population, too.  The difference in temperature between the control population and the experimental population will establish that metabolic acceleration occurred.

Algae looks like the best subject for this.  (The asystematization of my thoughts is painful here; I ought to be building a chart and filling in numbers rather than just wordzin'.)  There are both thermophilic and psychrophilic algae, and getting them to uptake each other's mitochondria should be enough to have interesting results of some variety...  although admittedly, the answer to the question of whether thermophilia or psychorophilia really changes the operations of mitochondria is not set firmly in my mind...  I'm not yet convinced that the existing research adequately explores this space, and I think there may still be low-hanging fruit in the study of mitochondria.

Looking up research on extremophilia, it looks like other research has focused on extremophilic enzymes that sustain life in those conditions.  Thermophilic enzymes are unusually stable and unreactive, whereas psychophilic enzymes are unusually unstable and reactive.  Changing the operating temperature of a microbe at the level of its enzyme conformation is probably out of reach, though I wonder if some kind of selective breeding environment could be created to try to automate the development of thermophilic microbes.  Chemical reaction rates increase with temperature, and unless I'm mistaken, psychrophilic microbes generally grow more slowly at their optimal temperatures than thermophilic microbes do at their optimal temperatures, such that a population of two very similar microbes such that one has a higher optimal temperature than the other will see the higher optimal temperature population grow faster when both populations are kept at their respective optimal temperatures.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[exogenous-mitochondria]: exogenous-mitochondria.md "Exogenous Mitochondria"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"