# Organ Printing

When we can print every part of a person, we can repair any part of a person.  This is a technically incorrect equivocation, but I believe it emphasizes very strongly a connection which should be observed to exist between promising technologies and current medical realities, for an admirably generic definition of current medical realities.

I hope that organ printing will also be an important part of [[rejuvenative-medical-interventions]] at the higher difficulty side of things.  If the scarcity of organs were to plummet far enough, and the process of replacement mechanized to a sufficient level of safety, organ transplants could be utilized not only to repair the most grevious injuries, but also to improve the quality of organs within the body.  I believe that this service could be an important advancement in human healthspan and productivity, as well as being its own kind of life-saving through the successful reduction of all-cause mortality in the individuals recipient of it.  I do not believe that this position violates my obligations as an [[egalitarian]]; rather, I am an advocate of socialized medicine, and I believe that a universal medical system should also pursue this research vigorously.  I believe this because I believe that senescent impacts on productivity are at their highest among some of the hardest-working populations, and that the objective of the technology's expansion should be to have the greatest impact possible on the health of its beneficiaries, which maximum-benefit focus dovetails with supporting the economic productivity of the poor.

Finally, though it is the pettiest concern, I'm comfortable linking this issue to [[vat-meat]] directly.  I think cuisine could make more use of kidneyflesh if it could be grown in quantities exceeding that readily available in livestock slaughtering.  Consider how small the kidneys are vs the rest of the livestock.  I like the taste of kidneys especially, but this point applies to every potentially undersupplied tissue on the animal.  Even rough approximations (sub-medical printing) of organ tissues could be useful in cooking, if the process could be performed cheaply enough.

Category note:
Organ printing is a subset of [[ontogenic-control]].

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[rejuvenative-medical-interventions]: rejuvenative-medical-interventions.md "Rejuvenative Medical Interventions"
[egalitarian]: egalitarian.md "Egalitarian"
[vat-meat]: vat-meat.md "Vat Meat"
[ontogenic-control]: ontogenic-control.md "Ontogenic Control"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"