# Plague

Pandemics are an existential threat to any society, but the globally interconnected economy means nobody is isolated from them anymore.  I believe that primitive societies were xenophobic in part because they had adapted to their own pathogens, but foreign pathogens could decimate them.  A merchant going to another tribe might prosper, but at the cost of betraying their people by bringing back foreign disease spirits.

People imagine the "everyone dies" kinds of plagues... actually, I classify COVID-19 among the existential risks, even though I see no reason to believe it's going to get anymore lethal than it is.  The problem is that it seems to cause brain aging:
https://www.webmd.com/lung/news/20201028/study-shows-covid-19-may-cause-brain-aging

This is a preliminary finding rather than a certain one, but I consider it credible.  Covid-19 is associated with anosmia, another aged brain symptom that is a hallmark of viruses which prefer neural tissue.  Ten years of aging doesn't sound terrible, but consider the high asymptomatic rate.  It's a mutating reinfectious virus, too.  People can get multiple strains.  The major mink cull in Denmark wasn't an overreaction given medical authorities discovered that a strain mutated in the mink to create a new source of hazard that had begun to spread among humans.

If people repeatedly suffer a source of neural entropy, they'll become prematurely senile.  The X-risk here is society grinding apart in premature senility.  If we'd advanced the state of the art in neural regeneration more over the past few decades, this wouldn't be a big deal, because we'd have medical treatments which we could roll out at an industrial scale to deal with it.

Back to [[existential-threat]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[existential-threat]: existential-threat "Existential Threat"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"