# potential magic systems

Sometimes I get distracted thinking about fantasy concepts.  Since I still expect to publish a fantasy or sci-fi novel at some point in the next century, I believe I ought to keep these as they occur to me.  With this system, I can also share them.

---
Imagine that the basic element of magic in a setting was a little bottle, of which every mage would have one.  When capped, inverted, and held to the body, the bottle would fill with an ethereal fluid.  This fluid is drawn from the spiritual potential of the individual.  Every time they fill the bottle, something unknowable is lost to them as their potential dims.  Yet the fluid in the bottle can be used to power great workings, and if they use it carefully they gain more than they lose.  Probably.  No mage in the setting is ever rightly sure what they took from their own future to convert it into magical energy with which they could cast spells, though some of them are such prosperous and contented individuals that they consider it improbable that they gave up more than they gained.  They say that spiritual potential is shaped by its use, and that in using it for spellcasting it returns to them as spellcasting potential and future potentials dependent on spellcasting.

Yet successful mages in this setting are marked by their reluctance, and it seems like any mage persuaded to cast too many spells in too short a time becomes a knot of chaos until they have gone some time casting no spells at all.  Spellcasting potentials are thus apparently good for the patient and bad for the impatient, even as they lure the impatient by the immediacy with which they achieve their effects.

Some people in the setting use the bottles in another way, as well.  Rather than casting spells with the ethereal fluid reified within the bottles, they soak it into their bodies.  They soak it into their tools, training equipment, and their objects of art or study.  They soak it into symbols of the potentials that they value most.  They are pouring out their spiritual potential...  for what?  For self-direction.  These are the ones who believe they can pull from futures they'd rather avoid to specify the futures they'd rather develop.  Every time they fill the bottle, they are pulling their spiritual potential into a form where they can re-allocate it manually.  Some of them even believe that they can influence the shape of the futures they are depleting by variations in placement and hold upon the bottle, though this is likely superstition.  These are the self-directors, who contest for the right to decide what their own spiritual potential is.

Often inspired by self-directers, and occasionally acquiring items from them, there are those who create garments and medicines that soak spiritual potential into people who use them.  The effects of these are slow - no instant healing, no sudden transformations - yet powerful.  The most prosperous of such individuals are those who use their items only for themselves, and there are not many who can do this as a profession.  For there is a taboo involved in giving away anything one has drawn off of one's own spiritual potential, and it has good cause.  It is after all ordinary and virtuous that an individual should use their own spiritual potential to advance in life, and a dubious kind of extraordinary that an individual should use someone else's spiritual potential to advance in life.  To make a magic item and then give it away is to give up brighter futures for yourself so that someone else may have more brightness for themselves; it is the work of saints and schemers.  Specifically, it is the work of self-sacrificing saints who believe they can gain something ineffable by supporting others at expense to themselves, as well as the work of schemers who are most comfortable working in the brightest future of someone useful to them.  A few sages have attained the profession of magic item artificer as well, by combining their interest in magic items with otherwise limited and ascetic desires.  Beyond the occasional influx of esoteric self-director items from self-directors who've decided to direct themselves in a new direction, saints, schemers, and sages are the three sources of magic items.

There are some who refuse to use the bottles and hold onto their potential for natural expression only, yet still watch interestedly those who trade in this stuff.  These are the seekers of magic items and the beggars of the magic economy.  They are powering their future without spellwork.  Their potential is untouched at worst, and on this alone they prosper over the most foolish of the users of their potential.  Some of them have their potential greatly magnified by friendships forged with those who trade in other categories of magic.  Some scholars say that everyone who hasn't drawn off their potential is technically an antimage (next paragraph), but that the effect of that is nullified by mutual positive regard with any mage.

Finally, there are those who consider drawing off the unknowable forever to fuel adherence to the thoughts of the moment to be wholly profane and arrogant.  These are antimages.  People who refuse to use magic with this attitude prosper where mages overuse their powers, and suffer where mages are sensible and hesitant.  It is as though they can be right or wrong, or perhaps as though they absorb inverse potentials from those who change their potential with magic.  Nations in the setting try to track the movements and fortunes of antimages as a kind of seer's forecast; they're drawn to their own fortune on average, resulting in antimagic population shifts towards regions with more impatient and/or less competent magic users.  This effect is sometimes impaired by immediate dangers from impatient magic users (antimages flee overt reckless magic like anyone else), but fluctuations in where antimages would rather be serve as a statistical indicator of something otherwise unmeasurable about the collective psyche of the region's magic users.

---
Curses are powered by burned-off spiritual potential.  They are a self-dimming that dims others.  Yet every great city lives under a myriad of curses, and people sometimes wonder, "What's the danger in cursing rats?"

Back to [[Detached Setting Pieces]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Detached Setting Pieces]: detached-setting-pieces "Detached Setting Pieces"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"