# privacy

I have a strange relationship with privacy.  On the one hand, exhibitionism was the sexual fetish that nobody needed to teach me, but whose weakness saddened me natively.  On the other hand, even that was such as I always approached as a fetishistic thing, naively presuming that consent would always be sought.  When I found my sexual privacy invalid in ways other than those to which I had given my informed consent, I ceased being exhibitionistic, as though to clarify with the whole of my being that a consensual relationship had not been established and the associated performance would no longer occur for the benefit of those not respecting the need to operate it consensually.

One of the recurrent themes of my life is rape-aligned people assuming that they will be denied permission to see things that contain nothing I wish to conceal.  My civil rights have been violated many times.  Indeed, my previous history in political sex work was performed under threat that I would be marked an authoritarian and ruined as such if I disobeyed.  This hit me in my basic personal concern for libertarianism and I took it as a reputational threat, but it seems that what it really meant to be "authoritarian" was that authoritarians get their privacy raped.  (I presume this is in reciprocity of what authoritarians would do to the privacy of other people if they could.)  The sexual nature of the offense is greatly intensified in my case for that it started in my refusal of sexual participation with others.  *That's* why I call the perpetrators rape-aligned.  Yet the more fundamental nuisance is that *information which I would offer to anyone who asks politely* has been stubbornly sought by violation of me.

Now, no particular anomaly is ever certainly anything evil, but...

---
[[2021-1-7-tenth]] is an entry that I cannot link from without the software I am using to construct these files bizarrely insisting on publishing an entire directory structure in the link references section, linking every folder in the path to the dragora archive on my hard drive.  It apparently does this for no other file in the archive.  For some reason, a file which ends with my disclaiming a need for privacy has recently begun to behave uniquely in a way that expresses a rapist's demand for my privacy to be violated.

Mmhm.  Thought so.  In the time I spent writing this post, that entry is now back to behaving normally.  The changelog now shows an "invisible" change in the last paragraph of that file.  This may be a moment for the diffs to be unusually informative.

---
A lot of things leave some traces.  One of the corrosive things about pervasively authoritarian structuring to society is the way that such societies rely on gaslighting and mandatory ignorance.  The free investigation of phenomenon gets shut down wherever phenomenon if investigated would embarrass people guarding their power over others.  Where else in human social life do such patterns of behavior predominate..?  It's not a pleasant thought.

---
P.S. Using artists as infiltrators is clever, but a reliance on undisclosable connections is a technology that predates the judicial system, and where it operates in replacement of the judicial system it can promote grevious injustices with no redress.

---
I've decided that I favor a 'Glasswall Grid' being instated.  A glasswall grid rejects privacy for all people and includes universal attention tracking so that people get a daily report on anyone who sees them.  A very key factor here is that it should be impossible to use the glasswall grid without having it snitch on you to the person you're using it to observe.

I consider granting privacy to those who invade the privacy of others, even in "necessary" ways, to be "The Tyrant's Error", and the basic root of corruption.  Far from being a restrictive force, I think the glasswall would reinforce peoples' right to do their own thing, while the people who would be *restricted* by it are the people who currently rely on secret observation to mistreat others.

On the one hand, the Glasswall Grid would explicitly legalize stalking.  This system would grant me no claim of injury against people who've stalked me in hatred.  On the other hand, it would make stalking impossible to perpetrate in secret.  I think just exposing stalkers universally would do more to squelch creepy privacy violations than any legal enforcement tool.

The people who stalked me were desperately determined that nothing I did would ever be important, and they were dedicated to faking an appearance that I was in no way ever, ever, EVER novel or capable of contributing to society.  THAT game would be destroyed by a Glasswall Grid, which make it much harder if not impossible to stalk people with the intention of suppressing their influence.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[2021-1-7-tenth]: 2021-1-7-tenth.md "2021-1-7-tenth"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"