# Psynumbra

ALL IS OR CAN BE BAD.

The psynumbra are a psychic lighthouse cast in the presentation of torture.  What is the real nature of the setting in Age of Wonders: Planetfall?  Well, it's war.  War forever across a limitless multiverse.  The whole setting is spiritually adjacent to the Abyss, which the Psynumbra worship.  Of all the secret technologies, which one has adherents who can most accurately label the nature of the setting?  Psynumbrans are the most capable of naming the true nature of the game.

Can there be virtue among the psynumbrans?  I think so.  It's a delicate thing.  A psynumbran who wants to exterminate all other perspectives could never be virtuous.  A cosmopolitan psynumbran would exemplify the revelatory lighthouse potential of the faction by taking a perspective on the other factions and technologies that those factions and technologies would never otherwise see.  If virtue is possible for them, it must be rooted in their capacity of acceptance; the psynumbrans are not exempting themselves from any of the consequences of the setting, nor are they lying about those consequences.  Despite their sadism, they're often inflicting more suffering on themselves than on their enemies!  As well, it is necessarily true that even the most fanatical of the psynumbra are seeking the dissolution of their pattern in favor of something new; that terrible Abyss into which they seek to plunge the world is infinite and unpredictable.  If the world of Age of Wonders: Planetfall represents a nexus of bad patterns, more than any faction in the game the psynumbra are immune to the accusation that they are trying to preserve those bad patterns.