# Reputation Markets

Sub-topic of [[war]]; current primary topic of [[Eclipse-Phase]] cluster
(I'll have to rewrite this content if I make an eclipse phase page.)

This is a hypothetical economic model in which monetary units have been minimized or eliminated, but people are constantly trading on their connections with other people in order to gain resources.  At low tech levels, this seems like something that probably has a name already, although I don't know it.  It's not the barter economy, maybe it's called the favor economy?  At high tech levels, the concept of reputation markets takes over.  This idea takes social media to the hilt and assumes society has the transparency of ubiquitous open sensors.

To ensure that the reputation system is capable of finding people who have internalized accountability, what people have asked for and what they've done with it is something everyone can see, and this system invites the judgement of everyone on everything.  That's accountability, right?  Gosh though, imagine trying to be a furry in the radioactive republics of Earth if *we* were running things on reputation markets.  Reputation markets may also be an attempt to reassure people that their friends and family will also do well in a very high-tech society, since they (imagine that they) would all +rep each other and gladly log favors for one another.  Consider the family dramas when those expectations turn out to be false, and the business dramas when they turn out to be true.  Indeed, if it's replacing *money*, imagine the metareputational conflicts as groups of people start trying to adjust society according to their views of its ideal shape by plugging algorithmic reputation modifiers into the system as a substitute for their own POV on other people.  Why should they be so reliant on individual judgment, when they never meet most people, and may not even trust their own judgment?  I'll come back to that.

As I've experienced the concept in culture, reputation markets were most explored in [[Eclipse-Phase]], which I think downplayed the consequences too much to really make the system comprehensible (to me).  Or, well, maybe they didn't...  It's a wartorn, fractious setting with heavy factionalization, where ubiquitous mental interfaces are needed to withstand the psychological stress inflicted by social life in the setting.  Maybe it didn't downplay the consequences too much; maybe they're pretty much right there in the open, but the setting has so many other scary things in the setting to worry about that very few people in the setting are labeling their biggest problem as "reputation markets".

Something that I think the game alluded to without stating outright is how the algorithmicity of the reputation market has to be addressed to construct or deconstruct such a system.  With everyone paying attention to this thing, and all the formalizing minds drawn away from optimizing currency towards optimizing reputation, communities would start developing mechanistic rules for how to live correctly in them.  It's life as a procedure, as work is a procedure; the perfect reputation would become a formula of input and output events.  If you want to run a factory, how can you do it without knowing how your products and employees are changing your reputation every single day?  You need your service contracts and raw material shipments to always remain favorable enough to happen.  Everyone who wants regularity and reliability to be part of their life needs to know what's expected of them well in advance.

A few of those people are needed everywhere, and some communities contain a lot of them.  The result is that a lot of the same values would be held everywhere, because they're favor given to stuff that society needs.  A lot of the small, specific variations in the initial reputation adjustment patterns would be arbitrary yet sticky, because they're moral judgments being given numbers.  Some large community differences would shake out transparently as people in one area clustered their valuations very differently from those of people in another area.  Community differences almost as large and far more subtle would arise due to people accidentally clustering their anchors a little differently in the arbitrary valuations of things they generally agree on.  Sociology would take decades to catch up with the little differences.

During those decades, I think a process would be set in motion that would eventually result in almost nobody using the reputation system according to its naive description.  I think that a few nerds would build personal reputation adjustment algorithms representing individualized judgment of abstract common principles that satisfice a lot of systems without providing a core performance to any of them.  This would also teach them how to touch the local reputation market *lightly*.  The resulting algorithms would be individual (customized), efficient (minimizing burdnen), and instrumental (results-oriented).  Individual instrumental algorithms would start promulgating through the quiet channels around such people.  Once enough people who value regularity and reliability are using individual instrumental algorithms, visible service providers would start publishing psuedoindividualistic instrumental algorithms better defining community roles and increasing specialization.  I expect that getting brain implants to become more capable of meeting public expectations regarding correct behavior as standards increased during the subsequent period would be a *very* reputable course of action.  I would do it myself in that society.

Even though I had imagined that reputation market engineering would be the first thing that ever happened with the system, once this system starts being run by people selling it as a service and pressurizing it for productivity, I think this is the point where reputation market engineering controversies would unfold "for the first time" (but not the last time).  Upset lawyers, technicians, and activists would start building new communal reputation adjustment algorithms tuned towards pressing society to their preferred sociopolitical outcomes, and promulgating *those* into the population.  At that point the nerd types will re-enter the field, authoring communal reputation adjustment algorithms tuned to making resources available to utopian projects.  Which sounds wonderful, but it's an or-else performance where society turns dysfunctional if it misdirects resources or doesn't actually model people's social needs...  If it's a competitive ecosystem, the best of the utopianist rep algorithms will backflow into the technical and activist populations, then begin reshaping productive organizations as network effects make them powerful enough to impact available resource flows.  When any model gets strong enough, it will begin to inspire both new mechanization controversies and new individual attempts at differentiation under pressure... which is where it started, too.  This system is a wheel turned by unhappy introverts who have to set the community norms or get crushed by them, and it squishes extroverted weird people outright.

I didn't think about this stuff before, or it would've occurred to me to be skeptical that snakebots and nanite swarm-people could exist in the setting.  The game puts Jupiter out there as the setting's local radioactive republic, where if I am not misremembering the material it would indeed be unhealthy to be a furry.  It has Saturn for the pacifist diversicans who love [[morphological-freedom]]... but that is not the pattern I have seen humanity to adopt when the judgment of everyone is invited on everything.

I think once real resources are in play, the mechanistic needs of life will take over in people's planning, and marking friends will become the *only* manual adjustment that people will make to their rep-face.  Their engagement with the reputation system, if it replaces a monetary system, must take up the function of the monetary system by enabling people to build plans for how they will get where they want to be in life.  The way they give and seek reputation must then become substantially careerist, and remember there's no privacy in this society where the sensor mesh is everywhere and sousveillance (surveillance from beneath) is considered key to accountability.  Compliance with the mechanistic local harmonic of available public value structures would be generally correct behavior, and the only generally correct behavior.  With the heavily machine-assisted free will that the setting makes available, most people would so comply with extreme reliability.  Indeed, almost every character in Eclipse Phase has a symbiotic AI to help them...

What is it like to comply with a mechanistic local harmonic of available public value structures?

Firewall agents rarely stick around long enough in any community to find out.  They're not given [[chassis]]; they're told to avoid getting attached to their sleeves.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[war]: war.md "War"
[chassis]: chassis.md "Chassis"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"