# Sim-Earth

I've mostly forgotten the time I spent as a child playing SimEarth, but what I've retained of one game narrative in particular will stick with me forever.  I managed an atypically successful planet once.  Every clade of life survived and was at a high level of development when the first civilization rose to prominence.  I believe that was a dinosaur civilization.  (Hello, raptors!)  I proceeded to go into the usual Gaia-struggle to keep the civilization from cinderizing its planet, and unusually enough, I actually won.  I delayed ecosphere collapse for just long enough, and the exodus project fired just in time.  The dinosaurs left the planet in an only partially desertified state.  The world was literally starting to burn when they went, but there still existed an ecology behind them, and I'd avoided losing my most intelligent species in several other clades.  I'd gotten away with key habitat protection.  Free of pollution from sapients, nature stopped collapsing and started rebounding.
So then there was a mammal civilization five thousand years later.  Five thousand years!  The sweeps of time in SimEarth are evolutionary, but I got another sapient five thousand years after the first as my intelligent mammal species redisseminated from their habitats.  I don't even think it was an unmarked landscape at that point, and I wouldn't imagine their dinosaur predecessors were ignorant of what was going on with their homeworld, so it's like mammals in the world dinosaurs nearly ruined.  Well, mammals are fast and invasive, which makes them as sapients something of a natural ecological nightmare.  Yet I did... atypically well this time.  I don't think the simulation models a society developing in an environment where the importance of ecological management can be proven so well in the archeological record, but maybe the damaged surface was hospitable and inhospitable in just the right ways.  Maybe there was something fortuitous about the scarring on the surface that the previous civilization had left.  The mammal civilization blitzed through technology, moderately disrupted the climate during their industrial period, and then took off in an exodus project.
I'd had to fight a little bit, as always, to keep damages in check.  I was motivated to do so, because the planet was now absolutely covered in extremely intelligent subsapient species.  Even the carnivorous plants were getting highly evolved!  I was hurrying the tech of the mammal civilization and really seriously expecting some other species to breach into sapience.  I was really eager to see what would happen next.  Well, about three thousand years after the mammals left in the exodus project, the answer turned out to be amphibians.  Amphibians, in turn, were the first sapients who I didn't have to go Gaia's Revenge on in any way.  They didn't destroy the climate when they industrialized.  I was agog.  The planetary ecology finished healing /while/ its coastlines were being sprawled with cities.  I was certain that other species would rise to civilization in that environment.  I couldn't believe that so many species could be at their last species on the game's evolutionary chart without any of them being considered sapient and civilized themselves.  (I think the game simply isn't coded to have multiple simultaneous sapient species on the planet.)
Three *hundred* years after the amphibian exodus project, the bird civilization rose to power.  It was a blink and you'd miss it interval.  Now, I love birds, so an avian civilization is a treat.  It's not that hard to provoke in the game, either; avians and mammals are the two species lines in the game which most ably evolve towards intelligence.  Yet this time it was slightly a disappointment, because towards the end of the amphibian civilization's run, I'd been watching those highly evolved carnivorous flora again.  I was really hoping that I'd get to see my first carnivorous plant civilization, and I kept that hope throughout watching the avians develop, but alas.  The birds destroyed it.  They inherited a very good planet and nearly self-extincted during an industrial phase that I couldn't control in the slightest.  I fought to protect a few habitats, but failed completely.  The last three avian cities lived on a burning husk of a planet in three nigh-impervious nanotech-era cities that had gotten ahead of the curve just fast enough to survive the apocalypse.  Not even a single microorganism lived outside of those cities.  There was nothing left but blisteringly hot deserts, with even the mountains too hot to climb.  Eventually, the avians left as well, with the three cities departing in an almost perfunctory Exodus.
Single-celled life evolved again in the molten world that civilization left behind it, as it always does in that game, but my attention was rather lost.  I was very disappointed that such an extraordinary world with so many highly evolved species and such a track record of accelerated advance was destroyed like that.  By the time the avian civilization was rising, I'd taken to imagining the planet as a creche for developing new sapiences.  It was something like 15,000 years in all from the dinosaur Exodus project to the avian Exodus project, and I found it readily imagined across such intoxicatingly short time intervals that there was at this point a society in space watching over this planet's development, looking forward to when they would get to meet new people of a very different kind.  So the collapse of the ecology when the avians industrialized, it was like imagining the sorrow of four civilizations, and sharing my sadness with xenobotanists who had also noticed the glimmers of intelligence in the very plantlife of that wondrous creche.