# Stories

This 'should' be a listing of my stories, but it's not.

One of the concepts that I've been working up towards with this agora is linking my stories to it.  I've spoken of past traumas around the breach of privacy on both of the 'daily' posts that I've authored so far, [[2020-11-19-First]] and [[2020-11-20-second]].  The idea of using this as a note-taking service, and publishing ALL OF MY NOTES, is... horrific to me.  Mostly because the people who stole my ideas by breaching my privacy successfully forced me out of visibility.  I actually got blamed for that, treated as some criminal who needed darkness.  Exhibitionism was my first fetish, like the only one that I came up with as a subject of personal appeal, without being pressured by anyone else.  It was a celebration of trust.  I only very reluctantly learned to value concealment, and only after it was pressed on me by people who behaved in ways that required I never gain a position in the light from which to speak of what they did.  Even then, I wanted concealment not in my own interest, but because I sought honest separation from people who abused me.

Stories...  I produce a lot more world-building notes than stories.  I don't adhere to everything I produce in my world-building notes.  That is somewhat an adaptation to the people who molested me subsequently stealing my ideas.  Some of it is garbage data so that they'll judge me for falsehoods and steal garbage as though it were good ideas.  Some of it is garbage data of a different sort, it's detritus from when I was still trying to be the obedient cybersexual toy of my "friends", who were after all supposed to be good [[transhumanist]] people.  (I was taught to consider providing cybersexual services to people as a form of liberal transhumanist activism.)  I think I've corroded into disrepute some of the people who thought they were stealing potential popularity from me.  I've always been smarter than I'm permitted to be; the supposedly good nerds who molested me aren't as brilliantly advantaged as they tried to insist.  My current archives are a total mess with unsorted and unlabeled rejected ideas.

Publishing my notes would mean publishing my world-building ideas more than it would mean publishing my stories.  This whole thing about publicly graphing thoughts... it's radical transparency, right?  It's old blogging in a new way.  Now the ideas can more conveniently form a map that can be followed to seek proximities and follow extensions...  I can see the potential application of that to creative works, but my intuitive reaction is still to remember old suffering and beg for creative isolation in which to work.  I'm more inclined to seek for a creative nowhere than to try to turn back the clock and reclaim my will to work wholly transparently.

At the same time, I feel stifled.  This really should just be a list of my current projects.  Hopefully, I'll eventually rework the file so that it is, and this content will be spun off to another node.

I do know what force stifles me.  I was easily victimizable, and as I have never tried to be a perfect fake populist, picking desperately through my life for weaknesses to strike at deniably was a means of easily disposing of me.  The people who did that don't seem to understand anti-authoritarianism at all, but accused ME of being fascistic, something that I'd been warned years before I'd be treated as if I didn't do as I was told.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[2020-11-19-First]: 2020-11-19-First.md "2020-11-19-First"
[2020-11-20-second]: 2020-11-20-second.md "2020-11-20-Second"
[transhumanist]: transhumanist.md "Transhumanist"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"