# The-Viceroy

The Viceroy is an interesting under-appreciated gem I recently had the fortune of discovering on Steam.  It's about managing a region of stellar economy.  The game's simulation is easy to "cheese" and maximize, but maximizing it may not be ideal.  It looks like the game has a lot of hidden substates implied by its narrative, many of which are worth exploring precisely.  Tuning into these substates requires approaching the game as a Beyonder, and manipulating the probability wave of the region to develop precisely.

The simulation and the narrative of the game both reward some amount of calculating evaluation.  The way that the game's narrative in particular tends to reward precise and contemplative gameplay is fascinating, but doesn't appear to have been noticed as a feature.

Subpages:
[[Collected-Thoughts-on-The-Viceroy]]
[[Collapse-Type-Suggestions]]
[[Challenge-cures]]
[[Ideological-Interpretations-of-The-Viceroy]]
[[Qualms-per-Challenge]]
[[Viceroy-Utopia-to-Dystopia-Technologies]]
[[Viceroy-Cultural-Progression-Analysis]]

---
I'm considering making a gallery of Viceregal characters akin to the [[aowcommander-profiles]] I made for Age of Wonders: Planetfall.  Some of what I've written about The Viceroy has been ambiguously in-character, and I'd be more satisfied with the creative quality of those thoughts had I specific characters to attribute them to.  It helps that, inspired by the game's Beyonder lore about the optimality of taking all paths simultaneously, I have opened four save game files in all at this point for contemplating the in-game ideologies of the separate cultures of which the Commonwealth is constructed.

---
I honestly think the developer of this game was involved with something "shady", or that if they weren't, someone hijacked their codebase for a shady thing.  Yet the game is such a beautiful complex ideological statement, too.  The Panarchy in this game is the first time I've ever seen someone other than myself express anything like how I personally feel about ideologies, which is that ideologies are *themselves* a form of art, and there's no reason that people should kill each other over ideologies when they could be mutually appreciating them instead.  The Panarchy loves *all* ideologies, and so do I.

---

Related Games:
[[After-the-Empire]]

Back to [[Notable-Videogames]]


[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Collected Thoughts on The Viceroy]: collected-thoughts-on-the-viceroy.md "Collected Thoughts on The Viceroy"
[Collapse Type Suggestions]: collapse-type-suggestions.md "Collapse Type Suggestions"
[Challenge Cures]: challenge-cures.md "Challenge Cures"
[Ideological Interpretations of The Viceroy]: ideological-interpretations-of-The-Viceroy.md "Ideological Interpretations of The Viceroy"
[After the Empire]: after-the-empire.md "After the Empire"
[Notable Videogames]: Notable Videogames.md "Notable Videogames"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"