# Tolerogenic RNA Vaccination Vs Dendrispecific RNA Vaccination

First Draft:
    In reviewing current technologies for RNA vaccination, I have discovered two distinct varieties that are being pursued in research: tolerogenic RNA vaccination and hypercompetent RNA vaccination.  Both of them offer exciting new potentials for medical immunoresponse tuning.  Tolerogenic RNA vaccination uses dendritic cells matured in culture which have been modified to present antigenic surfaces in a tolerogenic mode, thereby reducing immunoresponse to specific antigens chosen by the doctor overseeing the work.  Hypercompetent RNA vaccinations meanwhile deliver antigenic surfaces in a form that dendritic cells specifically are most competent to absorb.  This heightened specificity for dendritic cells leads to increases in the quality and quantity of helpful IgG antibodies that the body is producing, while reducing the number of frequently destructive IgE (eosinophilic) antibodies produced.
    Current vaccine technologies rely on the delivery of antigenic particles to the bloodstream, there to be reacted to by the immune system.  Mild inflammation at the site of the vaccination is normal, as is some amount of subclinical illness in the ensuing days.  The antigenic particles are broken down by immunorespones, and they're presented to the immune system to provide it with future sensitization against the specific threat vs which the vaccine is trying to teach it to guard.  Conventional vaccines distribute antigenic surfaces to the immune system in a distribution analogous to actual pathogenic distribution of antigenic surfaces.  This typically leads to upregulation of both IgG and IgE responses by the immune system.  Although the IgE response is dangerous to the body, it is adaptive when it reacts swiftly in small regions, and thus the immunoresponse of a vaccinated person is considerably more competent for the benefit of pretraining which vaccines provide it.
    Addressing hypercompetent RNA vaccinations first therefore in their position as a refinement of current vaccination technologies, the delivery of lipid-encapsulated mRNA (micro-RNA) instructions for antigenic surfaces rather than particles with antigenic surfaces is a fundamentally similar process which primes the immune system by the same primary mechanism.  It does so, and I call it 'hypercompetent', because it is an advance in cellular specificity.  The mRNA lipid capsules are less aggravating to other cells than the antigenic particles.  If they push up against a cell, it will passively take up the capsule, produce one instance of the antigenic surface, and rip up the mRNA in doing so.  Only dendrites are particularly drawn to the mRNA lipid capsules, absorbing the mRNA capsules more readily than other cells and then expressing their contents as antigens for presentation.  They even phagocytose antigens from the membranes of other cells for antigen presentation processing.  Something about this high specificity for dendritic cells and/or low cellular stress environment for antigen processing seems to bias the immunoresponse towards producing variants of Immunoglobin G (IgG) instead of Immunoglobin E (IgE).  Having more antigen-specific variants of IgG available in a greater quantity improves the ability of the immune system to respond to pathogens (including allergens) in an effective yet only mildly inflammatory way, this being significantly less injurious to the body than the IgE responses which are downregulated by hypercompetent RNA vaccinations.
    Tolerogenic RNA vaccinations are a more complex process necessitating individualization and several manufacturing steps, but they expand the scope of RNA vaccination to immunoresponse tuning over the body's tendency to become misprimed towards its own tissues by infection, genetics, or entropy.  Tolerogenic RNA vaccinations are produced by extracting immature dendrites from a patient to be treated, using siRNA (silencer RNA) to strip those dendrites of their ability to signal hostile responses, and then maturing them in an environment laden with capsules encoding antigenic surfaces for allergenic or arthritogenic antigen surfaces for which it would be desirable to teach the immune system non-responsiveness.  The resulting treated dendrite population is something of an immunohazard, as it will now signal for whatever antigens it picks up to be *tolerated*, but they will enter the immune system loaded primarily with antigens for self-or-harmless structures, and will not be conserved as a replicating population due to the monogenerational nature of siRNA cellular modifications.  This temporary period of relative immune vulnerability will be followed by subsequent improvements in immunoregulation of the body which may have antisenescent properties through eliminating persistent long-term inflammatory responses.  Immunoresponse mistraining is historically incurable, and as a sufferer of chronic pain, I confess to a certain conflict of interest when I say that this application should be researched with haste.
    Both hypercompetent RNA vaccination and tolerogenic RNA vaccination are extremely promising fields of medical research which should be empowered if possible.  Hypercompetent RNA vaccination technologies are nearer to deployment, for the COVID-19 vaccine has been declared to the public as what I would here classify as a hypercompetent RNA vaccine, yet I believe that investments in rolling out tolerogenic RNA vaccination research would achieve major benefits in public cohesion by improving society's ability to balance the objectives of productivity and public happiness.  People wouldn't have to work harder to achieve more in a world with better immunoresponse tuning.  Their productivity just wouldn't be impaired as often by aches, pains, and petty confusions.  It would extend the 'summer' of life by pushing back cumulative errors in the immune system for which nature invented no cure.

---
Seeing it in text like this, I immediately feel that I may want to revise 'hypercompetent' to 'dendrispecific', since the primary current RNA vaccination technology (as used for COVID-19, and as proposed in the research I've studied for the treatment of pollen allergies) is *primarily* advantaged in which immune cells are most responsive to it.

The identification of specific claims in the essay will provide a new essay-specific source of structure for my investigation of the available medical research.  Not all claims in the draft are necessarily true.  Some will likely be struck down in future drafts; others replaced or extended.

I wonder if you could encapsulate RNA in a THC capsule and provide treatments via vaporizer.  THC gets into the bloodstream and eventually accumulates in fatty tissue; could it structurally survive being absorbed in a complex shape?  That might modify fat cells specifically if so.  Although if it didn't work as an infiltrant, would inhalation be usable as a method of modifying lung cells with RNA?  Since neither modifies immune cells, this is off-topic thought for thoughts of vaccines, but these thoughts arose when I typed 'lipid-encapsulated mRNA' above.  I lack the knowledge to know if this is a foolish contemplation.  Don't try it on a sapient first...

---
I'm grateful that my school experience this semester has taught me how to value writing essays in a new and greater way.

---
I need to specify in the essay that I'm inventing and attempting to introduce the terms 'tolerogenic RNA vaccination' and 'hypercompetent RNA vaccination'.  For that matter, I need to decide if the 'hypercompetent RNA vaccinations' are actually 'dendrispecific RNA vaccinations', as I think would be more technically accurate should there be a pathogen someday for which RNA vaccination is not optimal.  This could for instance conceivably apply to vaccinations targeting multicellular parasites, as in that case IgE activation *is* appropriate and IgG-biased activation patterns would *not* be more effective.  So I think this is going to get a second draft pretty quickly for turning up flaws immediately on review.

I'm looking forward to establishing the dendrispecific quality, as I believe that may be an ambitious extension to the currently available information on the subject.  Given what I have observed of the status quo in my recent searches, I believe I will have to establish that by logical inference from observations in the data, as I have not thus far seen specific dendrispecificity praise for RNA vaccinations.  I am generating that de noveau and I intend to establish it as fact.  Presuming, of course, that it is an actual fact observed in experiments performed thus far.

My husband has told me that the work that I'm presently doing to try to draw new information from existing research is a "Review" in science.  He says that's the kind of paper I'm writing now.  (He also said things about scientific meta-analyses that I didn't follow at the time, but I've decided to record it in a 'this topic came up' sort of way.)

---
(Incomplete) Second Draft:
    In reviewing current technologies for RNA vaccination, I have discovered two distinct varieties that are being pursued in research: tolerogenic RNA vaccination and dendrispecific RNA vaccination.  Both of them offer exciting new potentials for medical immunoresponse tuning.  Tolerogenic RNA vaccination uses dendritic cells[1] matured in culture[2] which have been modified to present antigenic surfaces in a tolerogenic mode[3], thereby reducing immunoresponse to specific antigens chosen by the doctor overseeing the work.  Dendrispecific RNA vaccinations meanwhile deliver antigenic surfaces in a form that dendritic cells specifically are most competent to absorb.  This heightened specificity for dendritic cells leads to increases in the quality and quantity of helpful IgG antibodies that the body is producing, while reducing the number of frequently destructive IgE (eosinophilic) antibodies produced.  These term 'dendrispecific' is of my invention; tolerogenic may be found in other literature, although I feel it is important to draw attention to it here in contrast as one of a trio of categories of potential research objectives (the third is given in the concluding paragraph).  I am authoring this in part to propose the addition of the term 'dendrispecific' to the literature and classification methods presently used for researching dendrite cells in general and RNA vaccinations in the specific, as well as to draw attention to the therapeutic potential of an emerging technology in molecular biology.
    Current vaccine technologies rely on the delivery of antigenic particles[4] to the bloodstream[5], there to be reacted to by the immune system[].  Mild inflammation at the site of the vaccination is normal[6], as is some amount of subclinical illness in the ensuing days[7].  There exists also a risk of allergic response[8].  These three hazards occur with conventional vaccination because the antigenic particles delivered by the vaccine must be broken down by immunoresponse[9].  As a consequence of delivering antigenic particles to immunoresponse, antigen presenter cells[10] develop antigenic surface proteins[11] which they can present to the immune system[12] to provide it with future sensitization[13] against the specific threat vs which the vaccine is trying to teach the immune system to guard.  Conventional vaccines distribute antigenic surfaces to the immune system in a distribution analogous[14] to actual pathogenic distribution of antigenic surfaces.  This typically leads to upregulation of both IgG and IgE responses by the immune system[15].  Although the IgE response is dangerous to the body[16], it is adaptive when it reacts swiftly[17] in small regions[18], and thus the immunoresponse of a vaccinated person is considerably more competent for the benefit of pretraining which vaccines provide it, as the immune system of the vaccinated individual reacts more quickly and at lower pathogen counts than the unvaccinated immune system[19].
    Addressing dendrispecific RNA vaccinations first therefore in their position as a more proximate[20] refinement[21] of current vaccination technologies, they rely upon delivery of lipid-encapsulated[22] mRNA (micro-RNA)[23] instructions for antigenic surfaces[24] rather than particles exposing antigenic surfaces.  This is a fundamentally similar process to conventional vaccination, because it primes the immune system by the same primary mechanism: the delivery of antigenic surface proteins to antigen-presenting cells.  The mRNA lipid capsules are less aggravating to other cells[25] than are antigenic particles[26].  If the lipid capsules push up against a cell, it will passively take up the capsule[], produce one instance of the antigenic surface for presentation on its cellular membrane[27], and rip up the mRNA while processing it[28].  Only dendrites are particularly drawn to the mRNA lipid capsules, absorbing the mRNA capsules more readily than other cells[29] and then expressing their contents as antigens for presentation.  They even phagocytose antigens from the membranes of other cells[30] for antigen presentation processing, in this context of dendrispecific RNA vaccination therefore picking up 'stray' capsule absorptions[31].  Something about this high specificity for dendritic cells and/or low cellular stress environment for antigen processing seems to bias the immunoresponse towards pathogen responses reliant upon variants of Immunoglobin G (IgG)[32] instead of variants of Immunoglobin E (IgE)[33].  Having more antigen-specific variants of IgG available[34] in greater quantities[35 can improve the ability of the immune system to respond to pathogens[36] (including allergens[37]) in an effective yet only mildly inflammatory way[38], this neutrophilic[39] IgG response being significantly less injurious to the body than the eosinophilic[40] IgE responses which are not initiated[41] by dendrispecific RNA vaccinations.
    I initially labeled this process 'hypercompetent RNA vaccination', because it is an advance in cellular specificity which further improves the quality of the immunoresponse that it precipitates from that base competency advantage which conventional vaccines enable.  I settled upon the current proposed term 'dendrispecific RNA vaccination' as a more resiliently technical structure central to what I hope to establish in this text.  It is their dendrispecificity that gives RNA vaccinations their foremost enhancements[42] over conventional vaccines[43].
    Tolerogenic RNA vaccinations are a more complex process whose someday implementation will necessitate therapeutic individualization and several manufacturing steps under laboratory conditions, but in return for that challenge they expand the scope of RNA vaccination into controlled immunoresponse detraining[44] with the potential to control the immune system's tendency to become misprimed towards its own tissues as a result of infections, genetics, or entropy.  Tolerogenic RNA vaccinations are produced by extracting immature dendrites from a patient to be treated, using siRNA (silencer RNA) to strip those dendrites of their ability to signal hostile responses, and then maturing them in an environment laden with mRNA capsules encoding antigenic surfaces for allergenic or arthritogenic antigenic surfaces for which it would be desirable to teach the immune system non-responsiveness.  The resulting treated dendrite population is something of an immunohazard, as it will now signal for any antigenic surface that it processes to be *tolerated*, but this danger is mitigated by separate culturing as the dendrites will enter the immune system loaded primarily with antigens for self-or-harmless structures, and will not be conserved as a replicating population due to the monogenerational nature of siRNA cellular modifications.  This temporary period of relative immune vulnerability will be followed by subsequent improvements in immunoregulation of the body which may have antisenescent properties through eliminating persistent long-term inflammatory responses.  Immunoresponse mistraining is historically incurable, and as a sufferer of chronic pain, I confess to a certain conflict of interest when I say that this application should be researched with haste.
    Both dendrispecific RNA vaccination and tolerogenic RNA vaccination are extremely promising fields of medical research which should be empowered if possible.  Dendrispecific RNA vaccination technologies are nearer to deployment, for the COVID-19 vaccine has been declared to the public as what I would here classify as a dendrispecific RNA vaccine, yet I believe that investments in rolling out tolerogenic RNA vaccination research would achieve major benefits in public cohesion by improving society's ability to balance the objectives of productivity and public happiness.  People wouldn't have to work harder to achieve more in a world with better immunoresponse tuning.  Their productivity just wouldn't be impaired as often by aches, pains, and petty confusions.  It would extend the 'summer' of life by pushing back previously cumulative errors in the immune system.  This is one of the fronts that could be ably pushed contrary to the pressures of biological entropy.
    I would broaden the category of vaccine so that the antigen particle vaccines of the current generation of technology are amongst the incoming second generation vaccination technologies known as but one of three technologies within the broader research category of 'immunoresponse retuners'.  With dendrispecificity I expect that we will begin to be able to rebalance eosinophile/neutrophil response ratios, while with tolerogenesis I hope it will become possible to sweep out the accretion of faulty antigenic responses, providing two new levers upon a difficult biomechanical system.  Whether using these tools or other response-varying strategies discovered in the category of immunoresponse retuning, I believe that we will someday vaccinate against potential future overactivities of the immunoresponse just as we have historically vaccinated against potential future underactivities of the immunoresponse.  We could someday have a medical system which equips people with immunoresponses stronger than today's with far fewer false positives.
    This then leads me to my third and final proposal for a new vaccine terminology, which is that I propose the renaming of the previously predominant antigenic particle vaccine technology as 'eosinophile-inclusive vaccination'[].  I believe that term summarizes excellently the conditions under which I would expect antigenic particle vaccines to exhibit superior performance to dendrispecific RNA vaccines, and that its adoption would have a salutary effect accelerating the research into and adoption of upcoming new vaccination technologies.

---
...I'm intimidated by putting the citation marks on this one.  I keep veering off the task.  It makes me self-conscious about how little I know and how poorly I understand molecular biology.  I can do this, because the information exists described in words and mathematics that I understand, but my assumptions feel as brittle as thin sheets of spun sugar.  I am for example conjecturing that dendrites can phagocytose antigenic surface proteins from other particles, but I don't know if I can find that.  If I can find that, I'm concerned that I may not be able to find existing research indicating that this trait of dendrites increases the relative efficiency of dendrispecific RNA vaccines specifically, in which case I will have to redraft that [] into a specific proposal for an attempt to by research establish that antigen surface proteins which develop on unrelated cells can become transferred to dendrites in their cellular vicinity.  That could be done by culturing the unrelated cells with RNA lipid capsules coding for antigen surface proteins alongside a culture of dendrites without RNA lipid capsules, then mixing the transfected cells without the RNA lipid capsules into the culture of dendrites.  Do the dendrites gain the antigen surface proteins from the unrelated cellular population?

How should I modify the citodensity vs the densely cited essays?  Maybe not at all?  I mean, thinking about this as my own project for a moment, establishing as much as possible by citation is fun.  It creates a list of unusual links into the internet peculiar to the essay, each of which is a window into methodologies that have been used to establish facts.  To the extent that it is likely to consist of research links, it is a window into specifically scientific methodologies for establishing facts.  Yet I do feel a little silly marking dendritic cells "[]" as something I'll establish by citation; how far into history will I have to reach to cite research proving the modern understanding of dendritic cells?  Will I really be able to find research specifically proving that RNA particles are destroyed by transcription?  Some of these potentially extraneous citation marks won't survive a full citation project iteration.

There is also a notable possibility that my citodensity may wholly collapse by the yield of the final citation project iteration.  It depends on my success in delving the archives.  If it turns out that I am truly writing commentary on a very few key studies, then I will drive back my citations until it is made apparent that I am truly writing commentary on a very few key studies.  That will tend to carve off all outdated or extraneous citations if I come to that process, potentially breaking conclusions pro tempore from earlier citation project iterations if key research scarcity is not immediately apparent.  It is less likely to carve back my respect for the studies that I am citing.  If they are part of a broader scope of research pointing a way to a brighter future, then I have found a broader scope of research pointing a way to a brighter future.  If they are something rare and special, then I have found something rare and special.  Either way I have something worth highlighting with this review.

---
I feel like I can't get an 'in' on my own thoughts...  The structure of the citation project is meant to overcome that.  I'm going to rest for a few minutes longer, then call this draft's citation blocking 'complete' while I dive in for the work I really want to do, which is looking up a bunch of stuff in sequence.

---
Now that I've numbered the citation blocks, I think I understand why I got demoralized.  I've marked a current tally of 43 lookup tasks.  The [] doesn't go to the end of the file, but includes extraneous insertions; I'm not sure how many of those look-ups I'll actually do.

---
I did not either invent the word 'tolerogenic'.  I'm glad that wasn't in my first draft.  I'm editing it in-line in my second draft.  Dendrispecific is however still my invention, and my proposal of tolerogenic vaccination as a category is still valid.

---
**Draft citation project iteration 1**

Citation needed: 1
dendritic cells
Initial commentary:
1.  If I were doing this for class, I would cite what dendritic cells *are*.  Here, I don't need a definitional citation.
2.  For this material, I may not need this citation at all.
3.  If I do include this, it should be citing research proving the current traits of dendrites, though it is not my intention to put an effort into this citation during my first pass.
Suggested sources:
Skip this citation
Conclusion pro tempore:
Skip this citation
Concluding commentary:
1.  If it makes it into the final product, this may be a cluster of citations of *various* experiments proving the attributes of dendritic cells.  I would be interested in reading that material.
2.  I wonder if anyone has ever written a book entirely about dendritic cells.

Citation needed: 2
dendritic cells matured in culture
Initial commentary:
1.  First obligate source.  Experimentally establishing that dendritic cells can be grown in culture is essential for this paper.
Suggested sources:
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/15277694/
Stop and study
Conclusion pro tempore:
Stop and study
Concluding commentary:
1.  There actually seems to be some mystery around dendritic cells.  I may have already found an appropriate citation, but I need to study this rather than pushing on.

---
back to [[Author's Nonfiction]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Author's Nonfiction]: authors-nonfiction.md "Author's Nonfiction"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"