#Viceroy-Cultural-Progression-Analysis

Each of the six subcultures of The Viceroy progresses in a different way.  They start from a predominant lower class (with a very small 'middle' class on top of their society - likely what appears at first to be a true upper class), and eventually manifest an 'upper class' that takes over leadership from the prior 'middle' class.  There are anomalies relative to Earth in this structure, whereby the 'upper' classes in The Viceroy tend to outproliferate their lower classes; on Earth the 'upper' classes have typically lead the way in population restriction.  Note: This may be symbolic of a Panarchic 'middle' class on Earth, as Earth's scant upper classes have been historically averse to massive population proliferation, although it's more likely to be just an oddity of a 'gameism'; still, I can mine it for narrative value and evaluate it as a societal conjecture despite that it is almost certainly erroneous.

I have written in the main [[ideological-interpretations-of-The-Viceroy]] page about a conjecture that each society is Ashamed of its lower class, Enthused about its middle class, and Seduced by its upper class.  This is intended to represent the population dynamics and how they shift into each other - from shame to enthusiasm, and from enthusiasm to seduction.  At low levels of administrative organization, it is also suggestive of how each territory falls apart: excessive enthusiasm about 'middle class' technologies that don't yet work, and inappropriate seduction by 'upper class' technologies being implemented prematurely.  Unless you hack the game to produce stable territories artificially, it would take an awful lot of playing to get a stable territory, and therefore The Viceroy is fundamentally a game about societies that fall apart.  Although they also keep rebuilding... and perhaps one can imagine societies of people who like to disperse and recohere in new places.  I've imagined that there are non-Viceregal Imperial subcultures that outright build new planets, for instance, to support the great game.

In the spirit of the AES progression, I'm going to restart my considerations of each subculture.  Not written below:  Each of these societies bleeds a stream of migrants as it advances.  If some of the Panarchists in the Imperial Reformers shake their shame, for instance, they can therefore be assumed to move to other territories.  This is most probable for the middle class, as some of those who are Enthused by a culture are likely also to be Seduced by that culture... which suggests that they would move away to a different territory in hopes of becoming part of *that* territory's upper class.

Despite constant references to warfare in the 'cultural' events of the game...  I disbelieve advanced societies would persist in warfare, which seems traumatically boring to me, a kind of stagnating death of the will such as held sway on Earth for far too many centuries.

Imperial Reformers:  Ashamed of the Panarchy, Enthused about the Commonwealth, and Seduced by the Empire.
  * The Imperial Reformers take root in territories that are perceived to have collapsed due to the Panarchy, such that Panarchism is the identification that many of its people have and would prefer to be rid of.  Developing Panarchic technologies mostly assists them in concealing/evading their origins in the Panarchy, so that more of them are capable of passing for Commonwealth.  This self-eliminating proto-culture is unique to the Imperial Reformers.
  * Panarchists believe VERY strongly in their own self-governing potential.  Where the Imperial Reformers take root, what is most distinctive is that the people no longer wish to govern themselves.  Self-governance is something they believe in as a burden they would like to have lifted from their lives.  Scary, IMO.
  * These societies are initially lead by members of the Panarchy who are perceived to have most successfully understood the mores and technologies of the Commonwealth, but the galactic community assigns them Imperial governors.  They initially perceive Imperial technologies as a seductive whisper, but false and inapplicable to their situation.  The galactic community (as organized under the authority of the Viceregal administration) can nevertheless guide the early development of these technologies should it decide to do so...
  * The strange cognitive drift and exotic specialization which sets in for advanced Imperial territories is considered to have a great beauty here, and if they develop sufficiently these territories are a font of the most advanced minds of the Empire.  I imagine the Empire to have city-ships, leviathons, and great machine-minds that hold their connections to civilization tenuously...  those are developed here in a spirit of grand unity, seeking to produce mechanisms that adore the happiness of people.
  * Imperial reformer societies begin with poor moral standards, but have the potential to develop excellent ones due to the natural ideological inclinations of a society that is enthusiastic about the Commonwealth and the Empire.  However, the Commonwealth<->Imperial transition is fraught with restrictiveness and cognitive drift.  Furthermore, the initial technological focus of the Imperial Reformers does not include excellent prospects for developing a happy society, but does include the potential to develop into a pinnacle society very rapidly.  This reduction of the cycles of collapse that are found in other ideologies actually bodes poorly for their moral development as they may develop very advanced industrial capacities before they have developed a very advanced concept of justice.
  * While the Commonwealth Unifiers are ideologically closer to the Unioneers, very advanced factions of the Imperial Reformers are the most likely galactic culture to produce individuals both competent *and willing* to join the Unioneers.
  * Attitude to Unioneers:  Adoration & emulation.
  * Moral evaluation:  Promising, but Hazardous.
 Old Empire:  Ashamed of the Commonwealth, Enthused about the Panarchy, and Seduced by the Empire.
  * The Old Empire takes root in territories that are perceived to have collapsed due to the Commonwealth, such that the Commonwealth is the identification that many of its people have and would prefer to be rid of.  Developing Commonwealth technologies mostly assists them in developing confidence and control of their environment such that they believe in their self-governing potential as Panarchists.
  * The Commonwealth believes VERY strongly in the importance of societal unity.  Where the Old Empire takes root, what is most distinctive is that the people do not believe it is valuable for society to be of one united nature.  Unity is something that they see as an impediment to correct development.
  * These societies are initially lead by members of the Commonwealth who are perceived to have most successfully understood the mores and technologies of the Panarchy, but the galactic community assigns them Imperial governors.  They initially perceive Imperial technologies as a source of strange power, but incomprehensible and threatening to their individuated nature.  The galactic community (as organized under the authority of the Viceregal administration) can nevertheless guide the early development of these technologies should it decide to do so...
  * The strange cognitive drift and exotic specialization which sets in for advanced Imperial territories is considered hre to be an extraordinary reach of varied consciousness, and if they develop sufficiently these territories are a font for the strangest minds of the Empire.  I imagine the Empire to have city-ships, leviathons, and great machine-minds that hold their connections to civilization tenuously...  Those are developed here to explore the far reaches of consciousness, seeking to produce mechanisms that enable thoughts which would otherwise never be considered.
  * As with the Panarchic Ritualists, the Old Empire has an unfortunate frequency of psychological abuse, and prefers the happiness technologies that most mitigate the hazards (to the ruling class) of psychologically abusive conduct.  However, they notably do not have a pinnacle preference for manipulation, and their psychological divergence can (in theory) pull them away from the hazards of Panarchism.  Their pinnacle societies have ample resources to share and do not have strong stances contrary to such sharing.  The Old Empire's preferred symbolism ("holding the burning world in their hands") supports this eventual development of a higher standard, as more than the other ideologies they accept a repeated cycle of collapse and reimplementation as necessary and virtuous in developing a more perfect society.
  * Attitude to Unioneers:  Discomfort?
  * Moral evaluation:  Bad, but Improving.
Commonwealth Consensus:  Ashamed of the Empire, Enthused about the Panarchy, and Seduced by the Commonwealth.
  * The Commonwealth Consensus takes root in territories that are perceived to have collapsed due to the Empire, such that Imperial is the identification that many of its people have and would prefer to be rid of.  Developing Panarchic technologies assists them in developing their own independent wills and ability to function in a recognizable culture, such that they can contribute to culture as Panarchists.  This counteracts the cognitive drift of the Empire.
  * Imperial serenity converts ever more of the galaxy into productive living space while exploring strange specialized reaches of productive consciousness.  This fixation on real productivity and hyperdensity is shaken off by the Commonwealth Consensus, who seek to engage with each other in exploration of culture without quite so many arcologies.
  * Note that if there are indeed Imperial subcultures which seek to produce 'terra noveau' for other societies, the initial Imperial population may be partially or even substantially comprised of terraformers, society-seeders, and hardy colonists who willingly depart as new populations move in.  There may also be a conscript factor - I speculated in the main file that noncompliant Imperials may be directed to work on new marginal planets.
  * These societies are initially lead by members of the Empire who are perceived to have most successfully understood the mores and technologies of the Panarchy, but the galactic community assigns them Commonwealth governors.  They initially perceive Commonwealth technologies as excessively idealistic (and perhaps overpopulous).  The galactic community (as organized under the authority of the Viceregal administration) can nevertheless guide the early development of these technologies should it decide to do so...
  * The biological fixation which sets in for advanced Commonwealth territories is surely blunted here, as should they develop sufficiently a Panarchic legacy dovetails with Commonwealth cultural investments to create a society fixated on its ideals of beauty.  (Justice, I am sure they would assert, is most worth pursuing for that it is beautiful of itself.)  These territories produce the pinnacle products of Commonwealth culture, or at least they do in the opinion of most people; those who would prefer calmer culture may prefer the cultural output of a different galactic culture.
  * The enthusiasm of this society for Panarchic social technologies suggests that they have initially a rather poor moral character and it creates a distinctive hazard that their promises of Commonwealth refinement may be false.  While they have a more benevolently liberating attitude towards the Commonwealth than the Unifiers, their society is not insulated against the repeated cycles of collapse, and is not excellently equipped to make productive use of them.
  * Attitude to Unioneers:  Skepticism that warms to cooperation.
  * Moral evaluation:  Bad, but Improving.
Commonwealth Unifiers:  Ashamed of the Panarchy, Enthused about the Empire, and Seduced by the Commonwealth.
  * The Commonwealth Unifiers take root in territories that are perceived to have collapsed due to the Panarchy, such that Panarchist is the identification that many of its people have and would prefer to be rid of.  Developing Panarchic technologies mostly helps them deconstruct, subvert, and dismantle the beliefs of the Panarchy, so that its arguments are less capable of influencing people in their territory.  This self-restricting culture is unique to the Commonwealth Unifiers.
  * Panarchists believe very strongly in manipulating others and exploring extremes in culture.  Where the Commonwealth Unifiers take root, such efforts are perceived as an ugly banality in their own right.
  * These societies are initially lead by Panarchists who are perceived to have most successfully understood the mores and technologies of the Empire, but the galactic community assigns them Commonwealth governors.  They initially perceive Commonwealth technologies as difficult to actuate and inappropriate for their state of psychological development, preferring (for example) adaptive antipsychotics to leisure subsidies.  The galactic community (as organized under the authority of the Viceregal administration) can nevertheless guide the early development of these technologies should it decide to do so...
  * The biological fixation which sets in for advanced Commonwealth territories is fully expressed in Unifier territories, where Imperial biotechnologies are heavily manifest in societies attempting to build paradise models for biological lifeforms.  While heavily populous, the integration of biotechnologies into the economy is extensive and cultivation environments are extraordinarily productive.  These are the breadbaskets of the galaxy.
  * The Unifiers are not well-equipped to resist the collapsing impetus of the galaxy's 'terra noveau' environments.  Furthermore, their society is inclined to develop a dramatically less liberating attitude towards Commonwealth social technologies.  If there is one moral virtue of including Panarchists, it is that society develops fewer inappropriate restrictions...  However, the Unifiers stand out as the ideology most likely to take notable stands against suffering during *every* cycle of their governance, and reliably (attempt to) to fight for a better galaxy.
  * Attitude to Unioneers:  Adoration and cooperation (but not emulation, as most Commonwealth Unifiers share the apparent ideals of the Unioneers without seeking to become post-biological)
  * Moral evaluation:  Good, but Restrictive.
Panarchic Informalists:  Ashamed of the Empire, Enthused about the Commonwealth, and Seduced by the Panarchy.
  * The Panarchy Informalists take root in territories that are perceived to have collapsed due to the Empire, such that Imperial is the identification that many of its people have and would prefer to be rid of.  Developing Imperial technologies in these territories develops the faults and confusions in these technologies, splintering them rather than making them whole, so that the gap between the unusual Imperial minds vs the more 'cultural' Commonwealth and Panarchic minds can be bridged and crossed.
  * Imperial serenity converts ever more of the galaxy into productive living space while exploring strange specialized reaches of productive consciousness.  Although they share the Empire's interest in heavy automation and the curation of unusual minds, they do not share its fixation on real productivity and hyperdensity, but believe ultimately that the exploration of virtual culture is the finale which society should reach for.  Imperial AI expand, while Panarchic AI involute. 
  * Note that if there are indeed Imperial subcultures which seek to produce 'terra noveau' for other societies, the initial Imperial population may be partially or even substantially comprised of terraformers, society-seeders, and hardy colonists who willingly depart as new populations move in.  There may also be a conscript factor - I speculated in the main file that noncompliant Imperials may be directed to work on new marginal planets.
  * These societies are initially lead by Imperials who are perceived to have most successfully understood the mores and technologies of the Commonwealth, but the galactic community assigns them Panarchic governors.  They initially perceive Panarchic technologies as frightening yet fascinating, presenting a bottomless well of potential for good and evil.  The galactic community (as organized under the authority of the Viceregal administration) can nevertheless guide the early development of these technologies should it decide to do so...
  * If they develop to an advanced level, Panarchic Informalist territories become bastions of non-Imperial industry.  Their heavy use of industrial automation is likely to be supplemented by stolen Imperial technologies as well as Commonwealth holistic industrialization and lords of industry.  They notably also retain family structures while involuting, being therefore likely to have lineages that exist in simulation.  Members of Panarchic AI collectives from Informalist territories may trace their lineages as biological lifeforms do, and may even have been 'born' at some point due to virtual reimplementation of Commonwealth natalism.
  * The moral standards of the Panarchy Informalists are initially very high.  They prefer liberation and happiness alike.  However, they run the risk of decaying into tyranny.  Development in this pattern is healthiest if it takes a very long time, but this lengthy pattern invites repeated cycles of collapse prior to pinnacle development.  Fortunately, Panarchic social technologies accustom them to this prospect...
  * Attitude to Unioneers:  Admiration that gradually fails.
  * Moral evaluation:  Frightening.
Panarchic Ritualists:  Ashamed of the Commonwealth, Enthused of the Empire, and Seduced by the Panarchy.
  * The Panarchic Ritualists take root in territories that are perceived to have collapsed due to the Commonwealth, such that Commonwealth is the identification that many of its people have and would prefer to be rid of.  Developing Commonwealth technologies in these territories builds up their confidence in building a society without the Commonwealth's unity, reassuring them that they can implement what is best about the Commonwealth without swallowing the whole thing.
  * Perhaps shaped by their interaction with the Beyonders, the Ritualists see social technologies as a kind of... script that can be followed for productive outcomes.  Their technology base is fixated on finding out what motivates people and how to change those motivations by regular, definable interaction profiles.
  * These societies are initially lead by citizens of the Commonwealth who are perceived to have most successfully understood the mores and technologies of the Empire, but the galactic community assigns them Panarchic governors.  They initially perceive Panarchic technologies as premature and unsustainable, requiring and consuming too many resources before the motivations to be served and/or controlled have been fully understood.  The galactic community (as organized under the authority of the Viceregal administration) can nevertheless guide the early development of these technologies should it decide to do so...
  * If they develop to an advanced level, Panarchic Ritualist territories use Commonwealth technologies only as they have stolen them or pulled upon the Panarchy's alliance with the Commonwealth to implement them in the name of an ideology that is hostile to the Commonwealth.  These are ultimately the most 'diverged' minds in the galaxy, with their involuted society likely to retain very little commonality with any outside minds, yet superficially (which is to say externally) they are very charismatic as they consider manipulation to be the highest virtue.
  * Psychological abuse is regrettably very common in territories that have been successfully conquered by Panarchic Ritualists, leading to a preference for 'adaptive antipsychotics' and 'engineered optimism' as the only happiness technologies in the territories.  These mitigate damages (as antipsychotics reduce the likelihood that psychological abuse victims will rebel) or even intensify the pleasure of hurting others (as optimists have exploitable naivety), traits which Commonwealth happiness technologies generally do not support.  The third favorite happiness technology of the Panarchic Ritualists is Enlightened Policing, as it can be used to force people to stay in line and be 'happy people', even if that 'happiness' is only a mask that they are putting on - a ritual, you see.
  * Only the Old Empire rivals the Panarchic Ritualists in their comfort with repeated cycles of collapse, but the Ritualists do not use them virtuously at all.  That said, the extremes of administrative talent that the Ritualists develop also permit the potential development of *every* technology used by *any* ideology, and the Ritualists have the potential to use all technologies without rancor.  This means that a very few of the least hateful people in the galaxy are Ritualists... and indeed, the Ritualists have one truly spectacular talent: they're better at negotiating the end of wars than any other galactic culture.
  * Anyone who successfully steals enough Unioneer technologies becomes a Unioneer... or gets destroyed by those who did.
  * Attitude to Unioneers:  A desire to steal Unioneer technologies.
  * Moral evaluation:  Almost Worthless, But...

---
Back to [[The-Viceroy]]