# Videogame-Wishlist

This is a preference list that I decided to record and publish.  It's not about real games, and real games may or may not be able to take items off the list.  There's no particular reason to believe anything on this list will ever come into existence if it doesn't already have examples in the wild.

1.  Dragon Life Simulator
    * 1 turn = 1 season?  Tons of ways to do this, and my idea of dragons is typically civilian to boot.  I still think someone should make a dragon merchant simulator.  Anyways, this is a perennial for me.  These are rare and I can't get enough of them.
    * Examples:
      * - Golden Treasure
      * - TBF (To Be Found)
2.  Ballistic Passenger Business Simulator
    * Imagine if airline travel used rockets.  This would be a good excuse for a near-future sci-fi setting, since we could technically already do this, and it might help get people over a certain fear of rocket travel.  The game would have obvious potential to expand into interplanetary transit; expanding your business to service Lunar flight would be a good 'early-mid' objective, expanding your business to service Martian travelers would be a good 'mid-late' objective, and expanding to the outer planets would either be 'endgame' in a base design or a great material for a DLC.
    * Examples:
      * - There's at least one of these already on the market; I believe I've scrolled past one on Steam a dozen times by now.  There might be two.  Or four.  I'll play one eventually.
      * - I've also played one of these, it's already in my Steam library.  I'll list its name here if I ever play it again.  It disappointed me in this sense by inadequately developing the ballistic passenger phase of the business simulation.  I want a more specialist title, like an Aerobiz Supersonic of passenger rocketry in Earth orbit, which opens up gradually to new markets in other orbits.
3.  Reincarnationist Life Simulator
    * A minimalist life simulator designed for playing many briefly simulated lives, with soul variables accreting over time.  Soul variables in turn influence future lives.  Making different choices available and altering what choices are prosperous is the obvious thing for soul variables to affect, but I think it'd be more interesting if there was a sort of multiverse of diverse potential lives such that the player could try to 'aim for' different potentials by accumulating the right karmic soul traits.
    * Examples:  
      * - TBF
4.  Capacity vs Confidence vs Flexibility Economic Simulator
    * A nation or psuedonational entity simulator focusing on **abstractly** managing the development in a geographical area, with a key variable trichotomy implemented across many sectors of development: capacity vs confidence vs flexibility.  Capacity is the sector's ability to provide quality services under normal conditions.  Confidence is the sector's ability to gain capacity over time.  Flexibility is the sector's ability to absorb shocks (demand spikes and/or disasters) as well as its ability to tolerate fluctuations in available resources (due to planning changes or opportunistic adjustments).  All three are desirable and on average all three tend to increase; despite this shared tendency, the three should be a trichotomy in that they trade off against each other in policy.  Think about how expensive disaster planning can be.  The resources put into that aren't being put into providing quality services under normal conditions.
    * The technologies, policies, and other player-interfacing state modifications given by the game should modify the balance of the trichotomy in various domains.  The basic currency of policy actions is then given by the flexibility in each sector.  All actions which do not increase sectoral flexibility instead deplete it, and most actions deplete it.  Actions which demand flexibility that isn't there cannot be taken.  Planning actions typically deplete flexibility as well rather than provide immediate gains, but they are actually investments in increasing flexibility's growth tendency.
    * Spending too much flexibility changing policies increases vulnerability to disaster; building for flexibility to enable both active policy management and disaster resilience risks long-term deficits in policy confidence (too much uncertainty to implement services).  Since planning investments deplete current flexibility in exchange for future flexibility, overinvestment in planning can expose your capacities to being immediately wrecked while you're working on gaining the ability to defend them.
    * An example that occurred to me as good for illustrating the trichotomy in action is housing.  We can imagine that the housing market has a market capacity, a market confidence, and a market flexibility.  Disaster planning investments would increase housing market flexibility while sapping its confidence, possibly quite directly; urban planning actions in general would create a kind of weight of government which would have the same effect over longer time horizons.  A flexible housing market is then good at providing unshakeable capacity, but if it lacks all confidence, it may be serving its capacity in the form of bunkerized architecture.  If its capacity is not also excellent, it is more apt to be a society of bunkers, slums, and tents, which is to say flexibility in the absence of confidence offers within this model a mixture of what is miserably planned with service provision that is never good enough to insist on keeping.  If you instead promote aggressive capacity gains, you will produce much better housing, but unless some great disaster knocks flexibility back into the policy, you may never get back the planning resources you put towards increasing confidence.
    * Oh yes, great disasters.  A major focus of this system should be events reported from beyond the ordinary policy flow, some large, many small, some fast, some slow.  The simulation's numbers should be frothy.  I don't think actual governments ever quite feel like they're in control of the economy, and that is missing from a lot of games.  The abstractness of this presentation (standard trichotomy and lots of numbers) should make it easier to come up with fluctuating elements that keep the economy from feeling quite controllable.  Sectors should be suffering frequent shocks and fluctuating pressures, preserving an overall growth trajectory only on average.  I think "preserving an overall growth trajectory only on average" is an excellent description for how human economic development tends to proceed.  This will need some mathematical proving to balance correctly.  The reward of doing it is that this rolling whale of an economy is what gives power to the question of pursuing confidence or flexibility in this simulator's concept.
      * Do you trust the twisting economy to not collapse when you tell it to push hard forward in a sector?  When, and with what preparations?
      * When are investments in flexibility protective of confidence through stabilizing performance?  Which sectors benefit most from being hardened against the froth in their event potentials?
      * When is it tolerable to let a sector get hollowed out by economic fluctuations?
    * Beyond the trichotomy, the game's economy should also have a bunch of numbers.  Lots of numbers.  Snrk.  I mean, it should also be an economic simulation.  The sectors should represent categories of development that make sense as being critical for the nation or psuedonational entity that the player is influencing.  This determination of which sectors are present is a very central reflavoring potential in this game concept; a sci-fi game about an alien uplift government trying to turn a backwater economy into an advanced and futuristic one (I tip a wing to [[The-Viceroy]]) would have very different sectors from an [[existential threat]] simulator focused on the perils of well-matured growth tendencies.  Renaming the sectors and reseeding their event tables could produce very different games.
    * Examples:  This is too conceptually specific to implement.
5.  Cannabis-Friendly Exercise Game
    * It's harder to focus on exercise while high, but when I've managed to do it, I've enjoyed exercising while high considerably more than exercising sober.  I think people may be missing out on it as a hedonic potential.  Cannabis is known for being a stunning/slowing kind of effect, but in my sample=1 of experience, resisting the slowing from cannabis also makes exertion feel better.
    * If there's one thing videogames are good at, it's grabbing attention.  That this attention-grabbing function works beyond the realm of merely sitting down and pushing buttons has been core to much of my own exercise.  The interactive training environment can mitigate the disadvantage of exercising while high (poor focus) so that doing it is more reliable.
    * This concept promotes a recreational psychoactive for the sake of its customers' health.  I confess to pharmacoutopianism.
    * Exercise games are always of lower quality...  I think they're more than a genre shift, as different as being a wholly different technology in the videogame industry.  The best I've found have already made a positive difference in my life, and I think this is something that the industry will develop as a broader talent in the future.  Exercise games are just such an important tool for making good health voluntary...  They're a pure application of [[hedonology]].
    * This wishlist item is outdated now as I no longer use cannabis, but it could still help other people.
    * Examples:
      * - TBF
6.  Abstract yet Detailed Grand Strategy Game with Weird Maps
   * I was thinking about Warlock 2's usage of a many-little-planar-bubbles map, and I thought that a decent game might be made through collapsing each planar bubble to a single location, essentially a 'province' tile in a strategy game operating at the more abstract scale where 'cities' and 'units' are less individually considered.  I like weird maps (as with fantasy strategy gaming), but weird maps are less represented at the abstract scale of strategy gaming.
   * Examples:
     * - Dominions series (with creative fan-made maps) (still uses individual units)
7.  Mental Transcription Economic and/or Political Simulator
   * I think at least one entire very fascinating game could be derived from the Mental Transcription technology from [[The-Viceroy]].  Imagine adjusting the thoughts of the public via control of the policies of an institution which transcribes information to their minds.  This could be a very interesting variation of an economic and/or political simulator.
   * As a pure political simulator, this would be heavy; it would necessarily lean on the control aspect.  This is probably the *easiest* title to make with this concept, although I think it disappoints the potential of it.  Easy to make and easy to play, but bluntly didactic.
   * As a pure economic simulator, this would be much lighter; expanding the service and making it more productive would be nearly or entirely the whole of the game.  This is the most cheerful possibility, but it would also be rather ferocious to implement, as the simulation would need to account for rapidly fluctuating skills and talents across the population.  It would need to tell the story of the public changing as they use the service.
   * Other options exist on the spectrum between them.  I think the continuum may be smooth, such that increasing political content makes the economic simulation steadily easier to make, while also making the game get steadily starker and darker.
   * I think this tech would be awesome IRL, but only if it were run with full respect for civil rights.  Which should certainly be an *option* in any such simulations...  I think a purely economic approach is most likely to intuitively respect civil rights.  Overwriting people's free will with information transcription is likely to be difficult, controversial, and costly... all things that can be readily avoided by making sure the service runs voluntarily and in pursuit of customer satisfaction.
   * This concept expresses the transhuman concept of "Machine-Assisted Free Will"... especially in settings where people have their rights protected, since if mental transcription is implemented without rights violations what it does is that it makes people effectively much smarter and quick to learn.  It would empower the public to make the process of self-changing over time quicker and more competent.  They would become more like their own ideal self.
  8.  Anti-God God Game
   * A God Game in which God wants people to be atheists who disbelieve in God's existence, but is stuck governing people who are both attentive and superstitious.
   * Trying to help a society develop without getting blamed for it is the central challenge of the game.
   * This may also be appropriate theming for a game based on 'Alien Uplift' scenarios.  The uplift engineers want to help people very badly, but they don't want to be blamed for anything they do.  They instead want the society they help to develop the capacity of helping itself.
   * This could also be a good way to build a rebellion simulator, since rebels also can want very badly to help people without getting blamed for it.
  9.  Civ vs Weather Game
   * Historic civilizations sometimes died due to climate mismanagement... or even due to climate fluctuations that weren't credibly their fault.  Long-term development frequently knocked over too many forests, built too many walls of dry stone, or leached too many nutrients from soils that people didn't know how to conserve.  People didn't know what they didn't know.  Sometimes people even intuited pieces of the right answer, but didn't pass their knowledge on effectively to others.
   * This might be suitable for some kind of abstract 'zeitgeist' game where the player has limited influence over the development of a planet full of nations that separately (and competitively) develop across the planet.  I have no idea what kind of influence to give the player for this concept.  Inspirations for the people in the nations?  Specific surprise weather events to unleash against them?  Temporary regional climate alterations to favor, distort, or restrict development?  Who is the player: God, Gaia, or an Uplift Overseer?  The player doesn't necessarily have to be identified (who is 'the player' who can decide all the things the player decides while playing Civ?), but the question begs to be asked when deciding what toolkit the player has access to.
   * The nations should respond to the simulation according to their own AI, while playing a slightly different game with each other.  (They're strategy game AIs.)
   * Left to their own devices, the developing civilizations should destroy the ecology, sometimes self-destructing in the process.  As they get more capable, their ecological blast radius should increase accordingly, until the end game is managing late industrialization without the ecology collapsing globally.  The game ends when the planet's sapients are collectively sustainable or dead; the player's job is to make a simulation that will play itself to death achieve sustainability instead.
   * For rating 'sustainable' outcomes (only), I would recommend tallying multiple high score boards for the game.  The first high score board I would recommend would treat the player's unspent influence budget as their score.  This rewards the player for minimalist interventions such that the game *mostly* plays itself.  The second high score board would be a turn count with ties broken by the planet's historic average quality of life score.  This rewards the player for active intervention which spends influence freely to stabilize the simulation as quickly as possible.  The third and final high score board I would recommend, would be the historic average quality of life score with ties broken by the turn count.  This rewards the player for active intervention which spends influence freely to achieve a 'best possible outcome'.
   * For rating 'dead' outcomes, I recommend a single Tragedy board.  The Tragedy score is the planet's average quality of life score across the entire game, on the idea that the better their lives were, the greater the collective tragedy that their society burned itself out.  Ties are broken by the turn count as with the third sustainable high score board, but here higher turn counts are preferred.  Spending a long time holding on in quiet desperation at a high level of development makes the tragedy greater.
  10.  Fantasy strategy game with politically active dragon population
   * The shapeshifting dragons of my homeworld were hard to drive out of any territory, though we naturally populated areas at low density.  We were keen, opinionated, and approximately benevolent watchers of development, with a tendency towards our own long-term planning.  Fluctuations in our population or politics could reshape landscapes.
   * We were prone to "each dragon is a sovereign nation" styles of social organization.  Ideally, we sought to be acknowledged as independent political entities with separately defined territories, even if there might be a dozen of us in a community.  That said, we had factions, which in a game would define baskets of common traits for their adherence.  For example, the dragons of the Church of the Wind Goddess spurned shapeshifting (always visible), endorsed urban living (small, urban territories), and sought converts among non-dragons (local religious organization).
   * I think a grand strategy game could incorporate a sub-population of empowered dissidents, and dragons would be a great candidate for that.  The dragon population (and associated claims) would be a different view of the strategic map.  Being intelligent, curious, and extremely long-lived, we could be an asset; being greedy, over-proud, and difficult to track, we could be a threat.
   * Developing the dragon population should be an option.  Some nations were in alliance with the Church of the Wind Goddess; some communities were lead by dragons living openly; many of us were small business owners and/or landlords even in places that wanted to kill us.  I would love peaceful development being the only option, but that's because I'm a peacenik.  A general path of development would encourage more dragons to live openly.
   * Fighting the dragon population should be an option.  Indiscriminate hostility would result in dealing with shapeshifter conspiracies and occasional coordinated assaults on defensive structures.  Despite these hazards, this was a common response to us.  I felt like all dragons were being squeezed out of the world as it developed, which was an appalling twilight sense; we were being killed faster than we reproduced, and a great many territories governed by non-dragons wanted to drive us out.
   * Militarizing the dragon population should be an option, albeit a very expensive one requiring a high level of development.  We were capable of being very lethal living siege, as we were well aware (we occasionally organized our own assaults against antidraconic polities), but we didn't want to fight in wars.  Note that the Church of the Wind Goddess was pacifistic and would condemn recruiting dragons for war.
   * Exploiting dragon factionalization to develop some populations and fight other populations should be an option.  We were not angelic to each other, and even the Church of the Wind Goddess occasionally killed other dragons.  We were however beautiful to each other even in rivalry, so this would require establishing alliances *first* in order to succeed.  In the absence of an existing faction alliance and associated developments, killing a dragon should offend even dragons of its rival factions.
   * The far northern tundra forests were our homeland; we did not tolerate development extending too far north unless we built it ourselves, as that was where we raised our young.  Conflicts between dragons in the far north were very forbidden; there was no faction in the North save the North itself, which was united in defense of the North by a universal treaty.  Territories in the far north were highly fluid, as they would be held only for the fifty years it took to raise a group of 2-4 young dragons.  (I say 'only', but this reproduction rate was a problem for us; there were not many dragons in the far north at any given time.)  A strategy game using a sub-population of dragons could include reserve lands of some kind, either maintained by the dragons themselves (as was the far north in my world) or instituted for other reasons (a sufficient amount of land reserved exclusively to dragons could host dragon families in nations which are developing the dragon population).
   * Dragon leaders may be appropriate even as player options, as shapeshifting or dragon-sympathetic leaders of in-game nations.  (I would say making ALL the player leaders be dragons would be wonderful, but I'm biased; this would unduly reduce conflict with the dragon population.)  1-2 of the dragon factions may be suitable as 'nations' of themselves capable of reliable peace with dragons and unusually urbanized dragon developments.
   * Building true cities of dragons could be suitable as an 'endgame tech' increasing territory fluidity, reducing territory size, and enabling overpowered levels of coordination with the 'individuals' in the dragon population (think 'army of dragons'), perhaps contributing to other victory conditions (depending on the form of dragon development in the process), but the construction and upkeep costs should be heavy.  (The Church of the Wind Goddess should still oppose armies of dragons, though in her name they would seek other values in a dragon city!)
   * Antidraconic leaders probably need something that they can pursue instead of dragon cities, that dragon development interferes with...  I don't really have ideas here.  Bigotry was driving antidraconic sentiment in my world, although I have some sympathy for said bigotry; although we were losing to attrition, we weren't exactly trading 1:1 for deaths with humanity.  (At the same time, we were less homicidal than humans in areas where it was truly safe to be peaceful...
11. Time Travelling Political Assassins
	* You know what might be a fun game?  Time Travelling Political Assassins.  I was thinking of Liberal Crime Squad - pretty fun IMO, though obviously depraved - and how the LCS mysteriously knows the political allegiance of everyone they see.  The TTPA groups - the game would ideally have *numerous* such groups, representing different ideologies working within the same mechanics - would also have that ability (at least to start with), and likewise the gameplay would focus on committing crimes "for the good of the future".
	* The time travel mechanic would be used to provide the lore for this, and it would also provide a limiter on the length of each campaign.  Each time you're creating a modified timeline, you jump into a timeline where your particular TTPA group is the only group of time travelling political assassins, and you have spectacular knowledge of the starting conditions of the game universe as well as how it will progress if you don't meddle with it.  However, as you commit "necessary" crimes, the timeline gradually diverges from the one you were rejecting when you jumped.  This causes your squad's initially omniscient intel to degrade, so that your crimes require gradually more investigative work to avoid off-target impacts.  Eventually your group has tampered enough that it no longer meaningfully knows the future, can only really expect to make things worse, and *should* just disband to see how the modified timeline develops.  The "what happens after" sequence from that would be the intended way each run through the game concludes.
	* By using a time travel model, your group would also gain an excuse for an initial funding stream (prescient stock market manipulation).  The eventual failure of the market manipulation would be used in-game as a way to inform the player that timeline divergence has set in... it should actually fail pretty quickly, as any kind of market strategy has chaotic implications as the market adapts to the information generated through its own processes.  Mechanically, it would be intended to provide the player with their initial funds.
	* Someone more creatively villainous than me should come up with the various crimes that groups of different ideologies could engage in to further their aims.  The one I was thinking of when I started writing this is, a group of time travelling political assassins wanting to protect gun rights would be well-served to assassinate mass shooters in advance, whereas a different group wanting to get guns banned would be well-served promoting gang wars and driving people homicidally insane.  People who love guns have a strong reason to hate the misuse of guns.
12. Tile-based strategy game without distinct units or structures, but with amorphous overlapping organizations with tile-buying mechanics and mechanical effects based on the people who constitute them
	1.  Not specific people, abstract people.  Specialist collectives.
	2.  To hold land, you have to organize to hold it.  Every organization influencing a tile has to have some kind of structure for its influence.  Basic information is gathered by influencing a tile with scouts, for instance.  There are different kinds of scouts for different kinds of information, which is needed by different kinds of organization.
	3.  Organizations should need resources to maintain themselves, which they extract from the tiles *or* from other organizations.
	4.  Army units should be redeployable, and they should creep across the landscape not in single units, but in systems of organized force.  Dispersing units would weaken them, but hold land more efficiently; concentrating units involves yielding control of marginal areas.
	5.  Some agents should have low conflict odds, and low-conflict units should (usually) have tactical advantages.  Guerilla forces should be able to increase their survivability by avoiding disadvantageous conflicts, for instance, and military forces wanting to avoid ambushes are well-advised to hire scouts.  This also extends to civilian organizations (less fortuitously) as criminals of various flavors are also apt to avoid conflict until they have tactical advantages.
	6.  I was thinking that the theme for this would be a tribe initially divided only into gatherers and hunters, but which makes (initially peaceful) contact with other tribes, and then starts growing complex social organization with them and within itself, whether it wants to or not.  The populations in the game should be abstract, but not inactive; there should be a sense that the player is only seeing a cooperative fraction of the society they're trying to guide.
	7.  To avert the hypercomplexity of society simulation, proving the basic conflict engine with a more classical strategy game may be a more appropriate starting point.  In which case, the tactical match-up between different kinds of units, different levels of information, and different levels of force concentration.
	8.  Ideally, I think the phrase here might be "human terrain simulator"... but as I'm not that anthropocentric, I think the more ideal phrase would be "sophont terrain simulator".
	9.  I really want this as a society simulator.  Something that tracks scientific progress not as headline "research" objectives, but primarily as a process of increasing specialization.
	10. Another possibility occurred to me for scientific progress in this game: it could be interesting if there's a limit to technological progress in this game, based on the society's ability to hold information.  Different workers would contribute different kinds of knowledge-holding.  New technologies might displace old ones, with the player choosing which technologies are abandoned along the way.
13.  Abolitionist Combat Slave Simulator 
	1.  Bear with me.  Imagine "the Order of the Opening Fist", a group of slave-owners operating in a slave-owner society established on the edge of a slowly collapsing region that the slave-owning society is taking advantage of.
	2.  The order of the opening fist wants to end slavery, but they still want to be on top of whatever society results.  Along the way, they're trying to use slavery against slavery.  They buy slaves at the market and "train" them - into secret rebels who only work as slaves to advance the rebellion.  They also attack other slave owners and "steal slaves" - again, retraining the stolen slaves into people who are only pretending to tolerate slavery.
		1.  Option for the player: the Order is corrupt and wants to maintain slavery in this new guise of opposing slavery.  This is for players who play it as a slave-tending simulator.  This is difficult, because they can't teach much direct submission to the slaves, who expect to engage in strikes against other slave-owners.  It also leads to gradual tension with the rest of the Order of the Opening Fist, not all of whom are corrupt.  Down this path, the player tries to stabilize the slave-owning society without getting caught stabilizing it.
		2.  Option for the player:  The Order is benevolent and really wants to do the things it can only admit to its initiates.  This leads to very happy "slaves", but it also leads to a bloody story of gradually growing conflict with other slave-owners.  The player gets into conflict with corrupt splinters of the Order of the Opening Fist, too.  Down this path, the player tries to destabilize the slave-owning society without getting caught destabilizing it.
		3.  Option for the player:  The Order is ambiguous and really wants to end up on top of a society that looks like it won't seriously stabilize under the opportunistic slave-owners.  This path tries to prep for both paths simultaneously without committing to either.  If the player does missions for both "sides' of the Order while heeding occasional warnings against one side or the other, they're on the ambiguous path.  Down this path, the player acts as a mercenary who doesn't care whether society stabilizes or collapses, as long as they don't get caught either way!
	3.  In any of these cases, the player leads a pool of "combat slaves" (they're mercenaries), and they have horrible losses along the way sometimes.  It's a bloody game about fighting with other slave-owners.
	4.  The Order of the Opening Fist is nominally a paternalist faction of slave-owners who are opposing people who mistreat slaves.  This is their cover story for why they tangle with other slave-owners and occasionally protect people who aren't enslaved yet.  Even a corrupt player is expected to maintain the cover story, and it helps them acquire slaves violently while convincing their "rebel" slaves that they're doing good work, so this warrior paternalism is the basic engine of conflict in the missions.
	5.  The Player Character is NOT a badass.  They're just bad enough to be a trainer of badasses.
	6.  Examples of people the Order of the Opening Fist hates:
		1.  Fake abolitionists (they pose as abolitionists while negotiating slave purchases, but they aren't really)
		2.  Fake paternalists (likewise, but includes some figures who tend their reputation without tending their slaves the same way)
		3.  Sadistic slave owners (obviously)
		4.  Slave-raiders
		5.  Any slave owner who can be presented as a good enough "rival" story to get their society to excuse hostile actions
	7.  The Order of the Opening Fist would probably be super-ambiguous on the idea of people who buy 'volunteer' slaves.  If people sell themselves into slavery, do they need to be released?  This self-enslaving subset could be used by the player to acquire a few slaves that they aren't obligated to train into duplicitous rebels, but reasonably there should be few opportunities.  Plus, it looks bad to the most zealous of the Order of the Opening Fist...

---
This looks suitable for converting it to a list of links to individual sub-pages for each idea, and I may do so.  Maybe if I name some of them...  For instance, I wouldn't want to create a page titled "Tile-based strategy game without distinct units or structures, but with amorphous overlapping organizations with tile-buying mechanics and mechanical effects based on the people who constitute them".  Concept #12 needs a better name before I can create an individual sub-page for it.

---
Is this 'Author's Fiction'?  I'm not confident enough to put in a backlink here.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[The Viceroy]: The-Viceroy.md "The-Viceroy"
[existential threat]: existential-threat.md "Existential Threat"
[hedonology]: hedonology.md "Hedonology"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"