# War

Sub-category of [[existential-threat]]

War is the deliberate destruction of other sapients by malicious action.

In this definition, it extends to many kinds of conflict beyond the strictly violent, though it is still intended to refer primarily to the overtly violent conflicts.

War as a force of human affairs has become more destructive over time.  This has occurred because of an obvious factor that is broadly understood (technological advance empowering destructive potential), as well as due to a second related factor that is less understood (industrial development leads to sensitive global interdependence such that conflicts lead to unpredictable long-term weaknesses in economic ability).  Fortunately, humans have grown less warlike in a compensatory manner, and modern economics has for some decades been struggling to bring to the public the awareness of sensitive global interdependence that binds so much of life.

Unfortunately, this process of refinement has contributed to the necessity of extending the definition of war beyond that which is strictly violent.  It's not that people have stopped fighting; a community is pacifistic wherever it fights with the least force of the communities in its vicinity.  Some very smart people, of whom never all of them are evil, have been peeling back the unpredictability of the forces which lead to long-term weaknesses in economic ability in heavily interdependent systems.  They've studied for ambition, love, and curiosity, and the business of conflict has become harder to understand.

Consider [[reputation-markets]].  (Beware, that link is mostly about Eclipse Phase, but I haven't made an [[Eclipse-Phase]] node yet.)  What is life to someone whose reputation has been ruined in a reputation market?  It is the force of 'light', is it not, what everyone knows?  Step also beyond the ruin of single people in such stories, and consider what is *conflict* between groups of people who disagree about whose reputation should be ruined in a reputation market.  I consider this a contemplation of war; it is something which could grow in "peace" and yet drive such barriers between people that it could lead to violent segregations in their society.  I would say it has done so on Earth today.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[existential-threat]: existential-threat.md "Existential Threat"
[reputation-markets]: reputation-markets.md "Reputation Markets"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"