# Warlockisms

One of my characters in one of my stories is named 'Warlock', apostrophes included.  She's a fire elemental mink described as having flames seething through her fur.  Her fur is very warm to the touch, though not actively burning.  'Warlock' is not violent, but she is prone to accelerating without warning, and she is very, very fast.  She can be startling company.

More important creatively than her otherworldly appearance is that she's also a deranged seer with strange non-local perceptions.  It's probably impossible to keep secrets from her, but she isn't necessarily willing or able to expose them to others.  She talks in a very distinctive way that I can't write without inspiration, but inspiration doesn't always happen on schedule.  To make writing dialogue for 'Warlock' possible, I gather these up when I find them, rather than only while writing her.  Some of her dialogue is nonsense, some of it is meaningful, and the balance of the two is up to the reader to interpret.  I try not to put anything in the mouth of 'Warlock' if it isn't suitably strange.

In her setting, she's a government advisor in an underground city.  She's recognized to have some kind of unusual perceptual advantage over most of the other people in the setting.  Her advice is well-informed and freely given, but frequently incomprehensible; she's also occasionally speaking in service to her own interests rather than the city's.  She resembles a kind of summoned creature in her setting, but her presence is voluntary.  She takes no orders and is not capable of fear.

Asking 'Warlock' who she is gets particularly sterling nonsense from her.  She refuses to answer the question straightforwardly, and knowing that she's named 'Warlock' may be significant in some arcane way.  It's notable that her name is something which can only be learned from others who have worked with her.  I'll mark these as ('Who are you?') in the used section.

I was tempted to write affect onto these, but Warlock actually has an ugly voice.  She can shout or whisper, but nothing sounds quite sweet from her.  Her looks are otherwise favorable, if you're interested in fireweasels.

Previously used:
"I am the other side of the tapestry, opposite the door you entered through."  ('Who are you?')
"You've come by it honestly. So, King Gregory was a fool. You favor simplicity over him."
"My name is burning! The only path is through!"  ('Who are you?')
"Look at me.  I am not so large, but see how I flow? I burn, and I do not melt nor drip nor stick."
"The constellations move so slowly."
"You still swim in the well of your year."
"The beautiful flowers in his garden withered."
"There is a moment, and then there is not."

Potential:
"You will become a cloud in a checkered landscape to all without."
"I will hold you like a dream of bright cities and long-lost summers."
"I am the artist who once was given paints and brushes, now given dust and wind and wisdom, producing still the same art."
"He is one I found on the road to the tower. A curious traveller. I am not sure if he is servant, guest, or victim."
"There to him is a number that is not."
"The larger is the target, the smaller is the weapon."
"I am a fire burning upon the root of the tree.  Another world wished for me, and now I am here."
"People escape through narrow gates, and are pursued through broad ones."

---
Back to [[Authors-Fiction]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Author's Fiction]: authors-fiction.md "Author's Fiction"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"