# Metr101disc7 Weather and Economics

This isn't one that I wanted to do 'day of', but it might at least be easy.  The primary difficulty here is just going to be...  morale.  Linking the weather to economics is a pure boosterist exercise by my standards - a real rhetorical party.  The problem is, I'm...  not really feeling up to partying right now.  >.<

---
Associative draft?  I've got 'The Ecology of Commerce' on my desk in front of me with a bookmark in it.  I definitely think about this enough, hah!  I love thinking about geo-engineering, because the economy would be more prosperous if we had weather control.  Biological productivity is not all food outputs.  It's also about sustainable energy acquisition and the generation of inputs for construction and chemistry.  We'll never need to end the era of plastics, because we can make better plastics from agricultural feedstocks than those which we originally made from fossil fuel inputs.  Optimizing the weather would optimize the ERoI on biofuels, too.  Currently there's a substantial variability in I/O which interferes with peak development of the agricultural/industrial interconnection.  Agriculture is such an ancient division of human endeavor and yet new technologies still keep making it work better even now into the information era.

When bad weather trashes a biofuel crop, all the energy that went into it weighs against the ERoI of that crop, because that energy was invested without return.  If we plant biofuels where climatic conditions are optimal, they have a *factually* greater return on investment, through increased yields and reduction of wasted effort.  This kind of thing can play havoc with planning ambitions; well-planned ventures make their topics look better and more suitable than they are!  This manifests as a tendency towards diminishment and dwindling returns as optimal investments are made first and subsequent investments are increasingly marginal.  It's not that things get worse.  It's that heavily promoted ventures develop into more of their edge-cases.  Treating edge-case conditions can rectify them towards optimal-case returns, but weather rectification in agriculture is currently limited to reducing the likelihood of orchard failures in the event of unexpected freezes.  We can rectify soil quality conditions much more readily than we can rectify climate quality conditions.

Long-term management can rectify climate conditions towards high efficacy, minimizing diminishing returns under requirements of gradual deployment, though at this tech level the effect is limited to promoting afforestation.  Conversely, the absence of such management results in a desertifying trend emanating from human civilization.  Humanity already has geoengineering at the most primitive level, and if I can be forgiven for grumbling, should have already performed experiments involving the construction of artificial ridges to test hypotheses regarding topographical deformation of weather conditions.  There's certainly enough constructive capability to build hills or blast them down.  Most of humanity simply hasn't thought about the wind enough to understand such experiments.

Are weather-forced expenses a fair category of economic impacts?  I'm not only thinking about disasters here, but rather I'm thinking about greenhouses.  If optimal conditions prevailed everywhere, not a single greenhouse would be built before the scientific method got far enough along that people started testing suboptimal conditions just to find out more about their details.  I don't *think* that's how human history went...  I'm thinking about cellars and construction codes, too.  All of the stuff that people build to control the complex basket of ambient conditions that we think of as 'weather'...  Where does that start to become an economic impact of weather?  This points to one of the challenge factors of trying to write about this: what *isn't* a weather effect?  Weather might be the most complex systems that we can summarize to be improving or deteriorating.  Viewed through this lens, whenever human development doesn't actively worsen weather, it instead makes it better.  A sufficient blizzard could relegate a primitive tribe to the study of archeology, but it's hard to imagine a sufficient blizzard to kill any modern settlement without reaching for off-world environments.  Rational preparation turns bad weather into a recreational event.

---
It's clear that I've got subject material to write with, but I'm not sure what to focus on.  This is a bin full of dross that I need to skim.  Which bit is most interesting?  Shopping that question out to my nearest and dearest, I got a suggestion:  Write bullet-point summaries of each potential topic, and on evaluating the bullet points answer this question, "If I weren't writing this post myself, which of these would I most like to read?"

Topics:
1.  Impact of weather on biofuel ERoI
2.  Afforestation vs Desertification: Human Trends in Ecological Development
3.  Weather: the Omnipresent Variable


Impact of Weather on Biofuel ERoI
 * Diverse conditions of weather and climate create difficulties in massive scaling of biofuel
 * Weather creates inherent probabilistic distribution of biofuel returns, inflicting unreliability on industry
 * This problem exists in varying forms everywhere industry depends on agriculture.
 * Eco-industrialism!

Afforestation vs Desertification: Human Trends in Ecological Development
 * Farming regions gain productivity if ecological conservation is protected in them, and lose productivity if ecological conservation is unknown or devalued in them
 * This difference has seen the rise or fall of entire civilizations on Earth.
 * Collaborations on ecological policy controlling long-term pressures on land fertility are part of modern diplomacy today, because the regions affected by policy in this domain cross the borders of large nations and may cover small nations in their entirety.
 * Haven't I written this before?  I *can* reuse topics, but they take increasing amounts of investment to do satisfyingly.

Weather: the Omnipresent Variable
 * Broken down to local aspects such as humidity, temperature, and air pressure, the conditions we call 'weather' can be seen at all points in all atmospheres.
 * It's not always the most insightful lens, but most human development can be linked to weather condition response.
 * Adaptation to weather is one of the most fundamental measures of civilization.
 * Sufficient preparation makes bad weather fun and beneficial.

I think "Impact of Weather on Biofuel ERoI" is the one that I would most want to read, although I suspect "Weather: the Omnipresent Variable" would play better to the audience.  Biofuel is a more resilient topic to me, too.  The civilization perspective is fun for a while, but...  I mean, just look at that title.  "Impact of Weather on Biofuel ERoI".  I could write ten articles under that title at ten different levels of detail for publishing to ten different audiences, and I would enjoy all of them.  It's such a technically descriptive title that the only thing the title would get judged on is whether it accurately describes the subject of the essay.

---
I can't say I've had a biofuel fixation all my life, but I certainly picked up one while constructing an online notes archive.  I was studying mitochondria when I read a research paper published describing the replacement of the mitochondria in a yeast population with xenomitochondria transplanted from an entirely different kingdom of life.  In that paper, the transplanted mitochondria performed 50% less effectively in their new environment despite the researcher's efforts to engineer the yeast for prospering with its new mitochondria.  Despite that unimpressive energy yield, the implications of the paper were intoxicating, for different yeast populations provide differing performance characteristics.  If we can use transgenic engineering to increase the mitochondrial performance of plants, we can increase yields again through accelerating their growth rates.  If I talk about 'hummingbird mitochondria', I'm mostly joking; I don't expect the correct answer to involve xenotransplantation of hummingbird mitochondria, though I'd be willing to make the attempt if I had the right kind of laboratory.

---
First Draft:
Impact of Weather on Biofuel ERoI 
The most traditionally obvious domain of impact of the economic impacts of the weather is on the performance of agriculture.  Fluctuations in rain, wind, and temperature create varied yield in *all* agricultural crops, as well as the possibility of unexpected crop destruction.  I could readily author an essay on the under-appreciated importance of agriculture to industrial development via the creation of industrial inputs, but in this case I shall be moving from the general to the specific.  There is much concern globally over transitioning away from fossil fuels.  One of the possibilities which could be used to 'close the loop' and ensure that agriculture is insulated from conditions of fossil fuel scarcity is to produce biofuel crops which can be processed for fuels and industrial carbon inputs.  Yet biofuel uptake is hindered by their poor and irregular ERoI vs fossil fuel sources.  This variability is in part caused by weather.
ERoI is "Energy Return on Investment".  It's the ratio of energy input to energy output for a given fuel source.  The more energy you have to put into an activity vs the energy you get out, the worse the ERoI.  The ERoI of biofuel corn is 1.2 to 1.6, meaning that for every 1 unit of energy put into growing it, 1.2-1.6 units of energy are harvested from it.  By contrast, even a relatively unfavorable oil source such as Canada's oil tar sands yields an ERoI of 3+, meaning the yield triples the energy input.  This specific comparison illustrates the general case of biofuels vs fossil fuels; fossil fuel ERoI is more favorabnle than biofuel ERoI.  However, fossil fuel ERoI used to have a much more dramatic relative advantage vs biofuels, as early fossil fuels tapped deposits that were easier to extract and process, and the continued decline of fossil fuel ERoIs heralds the transition to biofuels as an economic necessity.  The more we can increase the ERoI of biofuel, the more prosperous that transition can be; there is no long-term declining inclination in biofuel productivity as there is in fossil fuel productivity.
In my own lifelong dreams of someday organizing major research projects, I love to think about engineering new transgenic strains of biofuel crops for higher ERoI.  I've no idea if it's possible, but I'd love to see biofuel's productivity overtake that of oil tar sand processing.  Yet part of the problem is that oil tar sands processing is a fundamentally industrial process proceeding under nearly weather-agnostic terms, whereas biofuel crops as *all* agricultural crops are bound to the vicissitudes of the weather.  Moderately poor weather means moderately poor yields or moderately increased energy expenditures for high yields, either way translating to poor ERoI.  If that happens too many times across the breadth of a biofuel-dependent economy, it creates a recession risk in the form of industrial fuel shortages.  Severely unfortunate weather results in destroyed yields, such that the energy input is weighed against marginal or no energy output.  This would be a source of stark pain in the logistical planning in that region's industry.  The possibility of such events must be factored into the overall ERoI of biofuels, and it acts as one of the anchors pinning down biofuel productivity.
I believe that very literal and quite impressive weather control technologies are possible for human societies to implement, and if we had those we would see increased ERoI from biofuels due to stabilization of biofuel yields.  We certainly don't have them yet.  If the ERoI of fossil fuel extraction falls under the ERoI of biofuels in the absence of weather control technologies, weather-induced agricultural productivity fluctuations may start to become fuel market price fluctuations as well due to the influence of the weather on the specific ERoI yielded by the crops in a particular growing season.

---
I'm a little behind on my work, and this doesn't formally require citations, so I think I'm going to publish as-is at this point.

---
Back to [[metr101]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[metr101]: metr101.md "METR101"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"