# Transgenic Algae

Algae actually has a lot of industrial applications, and I wonder if it has even more that haven't yet been invented.  I read recently that dyes are extracted from algae.  Could we engineer algae to produce new colors?  This is just a thought, but it may be the start of further thought.  Algae are fast-growing crops whose predominant inputs are chemicals that we otherwise consider pollutants.  As I understand the issue (I may be wrong), the primary restraint on the production of algae is the undesirability of algae as a crop.  Genetic engineering should be able to fix that!

See also:
[[algae-farming-for-soil-quality]]

---
This needs reorganized.  I've done more thinking about this before; I just linked in from [[metr101disc10-Air-Pollution]], and the reason why I did that was to reference my thoughts about potentially using xenomitochondria engineering to increase algae growth rates.  Here I see I was thinking about something very different when I wrote the transgenic algae file.  The idea of splicing other chemistries into algae to see what else algae could grow very rapidly for us is certainly intriguing, but I'd forgotten that I'd ever thought about it, and I expected this file to contain something else.

I might want to strip the autolinker cludge from below, as well.  It seems like Obsidian has a more 'advanced' version of Foam's featureset, and works much better.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[algae-farming-for-soil-quality]: algae-farming-for-soil-quality.md "Algae Farming for Soil Quality"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"