# 2020-12-15-EIGHTH

I've invented a new potential study tool.  I'm fixated on games, to be honest; I always long for a world where everything pleasurable is good, and everything good is pleasurable.  I think that such worlds represent systems of excellently constructed rational incentives, and... well, I'm reiterating the premise of [[hedonology]] here.  As I was saying, a new potential study tool; I realized that I can multi-task turn-based strategy games by utilizing their in-built pause points.  I can keep one running.  It provides a psychological insulation and a source of inspiration.  I can transfer between the game and something that I'm studying.

I've been playing [[age-of-wonders-planetfall]].  It's an absurd game, occasionally insulting, certainly not literalistic.  Yet I believe in the creative potential of the process of reification, and I do not believe that transformative technologies are actually impossible on Earth.  The game's technologies are mostly gibberish, of course, and occasionally even beset by typos and mispronunciations that the developers certainly put there quite intentionally.  Nevertheless, thoughts about transplanting avian mitochondria (as I today added to [[exogenous-mitochondria]]) are a kind of thing that the game tends to stimulate.

...for the record, for those who know it as my nickname, I've been 'the Firebrand' for longer than I've played this game... but I haven't found the [[shakarn]] Firebrands very insulting, either!  As I imagine the game to be about civilizational conjectures rather than literalistic conflicts, the firebrands must be a metaphor for unstoppable forces *of mind*.  They are the unbreakable core of the shakarn, hardly capable of infiltration at all, yet willing and able to bear the brunt of the society's justification.

Anyways...  Thoughts about mitochondria are not even what I'm trying to study this evening, though for me to think about multiple trains of thought simultaneously is very normal...

I've actually been working my way through "The Ethical Slut", third edition, by Janet W. Hardy and Dossie Easton.  This is one of those things that I "should've read" years ago.  I might have even wanted to, though if I did it wasn't something I got around to.  I'm only 30 pages in, and I think if it were holding my undivided attention I would've gotten much farther, yet as a means to hold a context in mind and work over it extensively (to study more slowly than blitzing the material), this particular form of attention-splitting may be functional.  Nor have I been reading inattentively.  There's a sentence that kind of rang to me when I read it, and I want to copy it in here: "If someone is being coerced, bullied, blackmailed, manipulated, lied to, or ignored, what is happening is not consensual." (pg. 24)  That's a very familiar list.  It can be made more familiar by replacing the 'or' with an 'and'.

This book is a bit of a heavy read for me.  It's sitting right next to a lot of pain, and yet it's also aligned with what drove me through that pain: the apparent superiority of the virtue of liberal sexual ethics.  I see that virtue reflected in the real world when I compare the public mores in countries with liberal sexual ethics (very good) to the public mores in countries with conservative sexual ethics (very bad).  Sex-positivity stands against rape.  People can't usually exist in those communities with bad sexual ethics.  Everyone tends to find out.  What happened to me was... really, authentically anomalous.  Low odds.  I got unlucky.  The community police take a few sacrifices, but do better on average.  How's that for a governing philosophy?  Is it less wrong?

I think it is, because of the principle of permissiveness.  The liberal ethic does the least to restrain people who are behaving in peaceful, lawful ways.  It doesn't just achieve better results on average, it does so with less force and imposition.

I don't know if reading this book years ago would've helped me any.  I have a feeling that it wouldn't have.  It's already basically the ideology I was taught, so I think cybersex still would've felt degrading and unwanted, while sex with humans still would've seemed unappealing.  The idea of planning social engagements with people still would've seemed miserably dispiriting, and I would've been armed with even more of the words for making it totally impossible to understand that I was unhappy with my role.  I would still have been immersed in a section of society where involved conversations were unacceptable and stress was considered life-ruining.  I think I still would've wanted an automation tool that I couldn't get to automate (cyber)sexual encounters that I didn't want to have.  Sex would still have sucked for me.

So it wouldn't have helped.

"Many unhappy sluts with no date this weekend have gone off to serve dinner to the homeless at a local church and come back filled to the brim with good feeling about all the pleasure they were able to give." (pg. 30)  I haven't had a friend who would try to involve me in charitable events since I lost touch with the pastor at my local church!  (Don't get me wrong; his presence here has everything to do with charity and nothing to do with sex, as he never did anything creepier than gift me books on ancient world philosophy.)  I only met one person kind of like this in the sex-positive environments, and that person never held a satisfying conversation with me.  What I think stands out to me even more about this quote though is that starting point.  "Many unhappy sluts with no date this weekend," kind of astonishes me.  It hits my intuitions like a bizarrity.  "Why would someone be less happy if they didn't have a date?" I think to myself, intuitively feeling how unhappy "having a date" would make me.

---
Back to [[day-post-archive]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[hedonology]: hedonology.md "Hedonology"
[age-of-wonders-planetfall]: age-of-wonders-planetfall.md "Age of Wonders Planetfall"
[exogenous-mitochondria]: exogenous-mitochondria.md "Exogenous Mitochondria"
[Shakarn]: shakarn.md "Shakarn"
[day-post-archive]: day-post-archive.md "Day Post Archive"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"