#2021-2-25-Thirty-Ninth

Humanity doesn't seem to understand how to develop sexual ethics.

Humanity's intuition appears to be that conservative mores (don't talk about sex, don't tolerate talking about sex, harass and violate people who insist on talking about sex, murder people who don't leave or shut up when violated for talking about sex) improve sexual ethics.

That appears to me to be a recipe for making sure that victims are never, ever allowed to win against people who victimize others, which in turn seems like a bad way to improve sexual ethics.

Sexual liberalism works better by encouraging people to practice the romantic and affectionate skills which form bonds between them, and to share information about how that works when it goes well or poorly.

Yet humanity pulls inexplicably towards conservative mores that inculcate abuse, putting up more dedicated inquisitors to violate and destroy sexually ethical people, rather than caring sincerely enough about the truth to move towards liberalism.  Despite the transparent (to me) causality whereby people who want to violate others due to unacceptable sexual thought tend to *erode* the ethics against violation, humanity does this business of favoring rude, abusive conservatives in an attempt to *favor* sexual ethics.

By harassing sexually ethical people out of society and murdering them if harassment doesn't make them kneel to the Lisa Montgomery mores of conservativism.

WTF, humanity.

As a child, I thought conservatives shouldn't be trying to protect children, because they were wrong about how to do it.  I'm back to that position!  Someday conservatives are going to care about protecting children enough that they care about how to protect children *actually* instead of only in their fantasies.  There's going to be a lot more liberals when that happens.

---

Back to [[day-post-archive]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[day-post-archive]: day-post-archive.md "Day Post Archive"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"