#2021-7-27-One-Hundred-and-Forty-Fourth

Down with the Commonwealth, long live the Panarchy!

I think humanity is done with warring nations.  Already!  I think right now on Earth we no longer have the political will in any nation except China to go to war *as* a nation for any purpose other than defending against war.  I think China is the world's #1 global threat to world peace right now, but I also think that the rest of the world retains enough defensive military capacity that China would be treated really badly if it went to war as a nation.  So we're done!  Only China can mess it up.  We'll see if they even want to.  If they gave up their claim to Taiwan, I would become profoundly surprised if they ever went to war again.

The Viceroy has a profoundly messed up population model which bakes in demographic warfare assumptions and treats the purpose of wealth as synonymous with the search for reproductive opportunity.  I detest it.  I can't play the game anymore, and I won't be able to unless I can someday fix what it does appallingly wrong.  Yet I still love the ideological structure that it presents.  It's fascinating.

The Commonwealth has some tropey references to rationalist thought, but I would judge it to be predominantly... bigoted.  That's the "technology base" that includes nationalist indoctrination.  It offers nothing in the game to resolve violent military conflicts, all of which are settled by either Panarchy technologies or Imperial technologies.  The orbital observers (an Imperial facton) solve border conflicts, the panarchic informalists solve interpersonal violence, while the panarchic ritualists solve terrorism and wars between nations.  The technologies of pacifism are all packed into the left side of the tech tree in The Viceroy.

I'd say that the nazis were Commonwealth, IRL.  Their concern for the wellbeing of the public was real, as long as the public was "aryan".  They believed indisputably in natalism, a functional education system, law and order, and of course nationalism.  They even believed in the liberty of the public... according to a rather ancient and frankly awful definition of liberty.  They valued this absolute freedom... from a certain point of view.  They believed in the supremacy of their culture, and wanted to purge it of the filth that made it look bad.  They wanted the reign of beauty, as they defined it.

I'd say that human history was ruled by the Commonwealth first.  The Commonwealth in The Viceroy only knows how to improve agriculture by learning its technologies.  It does invest in metatechnological potential, but after that it needs MORE PEOPLE.  All of the burgeoning Commonwealth nations bump into each other and begin contesting for resources.  The competing myriad "unities" are all *different*, and they end up fighting each other.  Overall population increases as they fight.

I think that humanity is done with rampant expansion.  The ancient model of prosperity had populations increasing always, and this was key to seeing more prosperity.  Yet today we think of the most prosperous regions as pursuing 'shrink and prosper' while the areas that are still massively increasing in population are underspecialized and frankly live in appalling squalor.  So we're done with the phase of history that most closely resembled the population dynamics of The Viceroy.  That was Commonwealth 'social technology'.  It relied upon awful things, and... then it obsoleted itself.  The virtuous members of the Commonwealth squelched the stuff that was bad about the Commonwealth, and then it turned out that the Commonwealth needed that stuff.  All the children mistreated by warring nations, one way or another.  By their parents who demanded power over them, or by the people who demanded power over their parents.  The best of the Commonwealth love kids too much to keep the Commonwealth alive, because the Commonwealth can't survive if child welfare is too well-protected.

An open question to me is whether the Empire or the Panarchy rules in the second phase of history.  The Empire includes a lot of massive population technologies...  The Orbital Observers have like +4% population growth in the base game if their society is fully implemented.  Yet I dissent with how the base game presents them.  I don't think that truly excellent medical care leads to massive populations.  I think that truly excellent medical care really could develop to a point that keeps people young forever, and in keeping them young it would help the public to understand the importance of sustainability.  The biotechnological potential of the Empire further promotes the concern for sustainability.  So I'm inclined to ignore the population growth aspects of Imperial ideology... and instead I note two things about it.  1) It's industrial tech, 2) it's not cultural tech, and 3) it's very specialist-driven.

The Imperial technology base includes generalist production only of biological materials, which is fitting as I think the Imperial cultural potential synergizes in a special way with its biotechnological capabilities.  Morphological freedom is best represented in the game The Viceroy as the product of the Orbital Observers faction of the Imperials.  The technology to create vacuum-based life would also proliferate countless bodily plans.  The same tech tree includes orbital habitats and seasteading, which would further support diversity.  The Imperial tech tree does the whole Dyson Swarm thing, too.  So the question to me is whether or not society ends in virtual environments (cultural dominance at extreme technology).

I think it should.  Culminating society in virtual environments is [[yggdrasil]], my dream of paradise, where all souls dwell in maximum safety and maximum liberty, with the final purpose of all society being to achieve cultural magnificence for all people.

This dream of mine does not look poorly served on Earth, which appears to me to have fully the potential to achieve it.  I do freely admit that Yggdrasil looks to be **centuries** away from the present day.  This does not bother me.  We do not live in a universe like The Viceroy where everything slows and slags until all society collapses under its own weight.  Rather, we live in a beautiful and adaptive world where efficiencies are often very true, and people usually keep to their principles.  So I think the progression is valid and hopeful.  My analysis to answer this question of how the history of Earth is progressing looks like this:  I think Earth is in a heavily specializing phase with relative cultural impoverishment (Imperial) that has rejected warring nations (post-Commonwealth) and is beginning to invest in virtualization (Panarchic) So Earth is in line with the Panarchic Ritualists storyline.

I would also note that humanity has *had* totally collapsed societies before.  Not everything that ever was has made it to the present.  One of the things that litters history... abandoned palaces.  Were a palace to be a tree we would pluck two fruits from its branches: compassion and destruction.  Buddha was born in a palace, but so was Ares.  We see also that none of these palace-builder societies persisted in such a form to the present day.  Primitive panarchists existed among humanity, and destroyed their societies.  So the Panarchy keeps trying to flower and it keeps contributing influences to history, but every time it blooms, it takes down society like the fungus on Alpha Centauri takes down its biosphere...  Will that happen again?

I think it depends on whether or not we can implement Yggdrasil.  I think the Panarchy will be wholly sustainable if and only if it does not build *physical* palaces.  When the Panarchic Palaces exist only in virtualized societies, the Panarchy will no longer be the sign of the end.  So if the Panarchy is a recurrent ambition of humanity...  it must signal the end in a different sense, as it will rise at the height of technology, to create the state that lasts forever.

---
Unless, that is, The Viceroy is right to posit that society will be forever collapsing and forever rebuilding.  In that case, the future belongs to the Old Empire, whose ideology is by far the most comfortable with holding the burning world in their hands.  Forever collapsing, forever rebuilding.  Timelessly.  There *is* some beauty to that, should that turn out to be what is true of humanity.

---
Either way, I think humanity's most lasting societies will be unwilling to embrace eternal warfare.  The Ritualists and the Old Empire: these are the contenders for the throne of eternity.  The first faction would build Yggdrasil, and the second faction can find serenity in reconstruction every single time.

---
Only the Panarchic Informalists stand out to me as offering a very different concept.  They do not exist on Earth.  They *cannot* exist on Earth.  Our history does not accept them as a possibility.  We do not start from a position of having nanotechnology already.  In my last life, when I was born to the Northern Creche Confederation, that society could perhaps have decided to go towards the Panarchic Informalists, because *that* society could have recognized its lost nanotech.

That's what the Informalists require: a society to have had, lost, and rediscovered nanotechnology.  So will that be the human future?  That can occur only if humanity first rises and fails.  We cannot live in that future from this start!  Those who live today would not survive to see it.  For those who live today to see forever, it must be that one of the Panarchic Ritualists or the Old Empire best embody the essence of human nature.

...and I think there's a good chance, given that both of them consider running vacation resorts to be an essential universal policy stance.  It's hard to build up talent when your leaders feel like they're dying inside all the time, and you can't run a great hotel in a warzone, nor in a festering pit of plague.  Doesn't take advanced skills to be hospitable either, you only need a good will.  As superficial as it sounds, I think the way both of these two factions include tourism in their foundation gives them a better chance of being essentially true.

---
Back to [[day-post-archive]]