# 2021-2-13-Twenty-Ninth

While we showered together last night, my husband told me that many scientists are... I don't remember the phrase or word he used, but essentially, he said that they're laborers.  He said that rather than pursuing their curiosities and fascinations, they're actually showing up at work each day to implement procedures which are defined relative to their intended product output, as workers in many industries do.

I found that interesting and not at all discouraging or upsetting.  For if that's true, then compiling and publishing general protocols of invention is a productive thing to do in general, since it makes the processes of invention more readily available to people who are implementing procedures.  I have nothing against procedural generation of recombinant proteins...  Particularly in medicine, that seems like something which serves well the health of all, quite evenly and without force.

---
"All must be free to do good or evil as they will."

In one sense, this is a validation that evil must be allowed to exist.  At the same time, it is also a decree that evil must not entrap others.  To believe in this principle does not reject all binding, but it binds evil to evil and good to good, while dispersing all knots that arise within the system against the wills of its participants.

---

I'm strongly drawn to a kind of game that I call 'immortality games'.  Immortality games are the ones that may or may not be difficult, but which are certainly very slow.  Extremely large experiences - such as seriously plumbing the depths of a generative system with great detailing - take for-freaking-ever to complete.  The result is a gameplay experience that feels *extra bad* in a mortal context.  These games waste precious biological entropy.  They magnify the basic unfairness of life, in that they are thoroughly harmless yet barred by entropy.

Yet were we immortal, such entertainments would be the ones capable of expanding without limit, and we would learn to soak spans of time even more effectively.  As opposed to the mortal incentive, which is more like providing compact psychological services...

---
back to [[day-post-archive]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[day-post-archive]: day-post-archive.md "Day Post Archive"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"