14:11.  I don't think I'll write today.  Also, I had an energy drink earlier, but I haven't had a second one.

14:14.  I drank a small amount of alcohol and it went straight to my belly like a stone.  Weird sensation.  Feels a lot like I hate something hard, cold, and heavy, but it wasn't anything like that.

15:07.  So I'm still working mentally on potential contracts for my HSD group.  I think my second contract will be based on a Stifle-cult.

15:47.  Wow, was that forty minutes?  Stifle-cult.  I haven't been very focused today.  Maybe it's because I drank more alcohol.  I was thinking it would help me get over my inhibitions on writing this project, but instead I think it helped me sink into an unstressed, "Everything is okay and I don't have to do anything" state.  I used that unstressed state to promote my bluesky account and I used my bluesky account to promote my latest story.

16:04.  The basic idea is this. "There's this gang that formed in the downside of For Deimos. Real low-lifes. They were on our radar almost immediately. We nabbed a few of them, but most of them didn't do squat, and we didn't harass the ones we couldn't link to anything. Well, that was a few years ago. A few months ago, they started cleaning up their shit, getting jobs, and saving credits. The gang still existed, but we were impressed. They went lawful. A few _weeks_ ago, a few members of the gang disappeared, while a few others showed up strangled. We're worried that someone is preying on a group that went straight. We want you to investigate. Pay is 2,400 credits on capture of a culprit." This is a potential IRPF (police corp) contract for the group. The 'gang' is actually a cult worshipping an extra-dimensional plane known as stifle. To get to stifle, you have to have a specific pair of implants and then _almost_ suffocate.

16:47.  So these suffocated individuals should all be discoverable on autopsy to have Manifestation and Nullification implants.  The IRPF has recovered two strangled bodies and recorded six disappearances, 1 of whom reappeared on Europa despite being a poor fucker with no apparent connections to Europa.

17:05.  I don't know if I want transcendant implants to be discoverable on autopsy.  Maybe it shouldn't be possible to recognize that.  Damn, how do I get the players to discover that?

19:27.  Maybe a contact with the gang who came to the IRPF for protection after several deaths can say they were excited about getting TTI transcendant implants.  They all wanted manifestation implants.  If the players asks whether the manifestation implants were being used for criminal activities, the contact says, "Not as far as I know.  We were just going to... look at things."

19:50.  Alright, I'm done fasting.  Just a little more than twenty four hours.  I'll eat something and go back to fasting.

20:14.  I've eaten.  Time to get back to fasting.

20:15.  My mind is full of thoughts about a hypothetical Squirm cult.  Interacting with Squirm to try to advance their ideals.  To manipulate Squirm's landscape.  I'm imagining telling the group, when they enter Squirm, that they're in a landscape of squirming brown faceless creatures covered in cathedral-sized techno-organic buildings, and the players are house-sized.  The squirm parts instinctively between their feet, and they're not sure they could kick the creatures if they tried, so fluidly does the mass move away from their footsteps.  But they could *grab* them in their *house-sized hands*.  I'd make the characters big.  And then I'd make the whispers the same size, and describe the red crystal whispers fighting the squirming mass.

20:19.  This squirm cult isn't about whispers.  What they do is they study the buildings of Squirm, like TTI might, and they study the squirmlings of Squirm, the faceless masses of it.  And like TTI, they don't interfere with Aberrations when they rise up, but they do study them, and moreover they try to create *their own* Aberrations.  And the way they do it is by temporarily interfering with individual squirmlings, tracking their motion through the mass, and carefully peeling back the morasse of other squirmlings so that their chosen squirmling gets to be relatively free of social pressures as it goes about its life.  They would describe their beliefs about what they're doing in Squirm as creating coincidences in vector life.  They're creating periods where the innumerable social pressures on individuals lighten up.  Their chosen squirmling gets a little lucky, or a little unlucky, or just rather lonely, and gets space to be themselves without social judgment coming down on them.  Time is weird in Squirm, so they don't know how long the periods they're creating last, but they claim that the individual differences between squirmlings get stronger when social pressures lighten up, and sometimes their squirmlings become aberrations.  When the squirmlings they've 'protected' in this way become aberrations, *then* the Squirm cult protects them, helping them develop.  For a while.  They say that protected aberrations naturally start building, creating structures on the landscape of Squirm.

20:26.  How long they protect their created aberrations depends on how they feel about the structure that the squirmling creates.  Every structure on Squirm is... dangerous.  The squirmlings move into them, through them, out of them, all the time.  But the structures have teeth and machinery that mangles individual squirmlings all the time.  The Squirm cult tries to judge the mangling rate of the creations of their aberration.  They can't see inside the structure - visitors to Squirm are the size of houses, and although the buildings are big, visitors rarely fit through the aperture - but they like to see good flow, with a lot of squirmlings leaving it.  And they hate to see obviously mangling external structures, because those they feel they can just judge.

20:27.  This described Squirm cult would be a relatively advanced organization with an understanding of Squirm rivalling TTI's.  For that reason, I wouldn't want to introduce them early in the campaign.  I would want the players to have a real question of, 'Do we break this group?'  TTI would regard the Squirm cult as dangerous, but they might be willing to absorb the cult as divers if the group agrees to leave off experimentation.  The group might be able to conceal the cult's activities, too.  It's very hard for the megacorps to track anything happening in near-Cuil space, so it'd be very hard for them to verify exactly what the Squirm Cult is doing in Squirm itself.  To sharpen the question of how to deal with the cultists, I would want them to claim that they "destroyed a Whisper".  See, Whispers in Squirm are red crystal entitites the size of houses, constantly engaged in fighting with the squirmlings.  They eat the squirmlings and vent squirmlings out of their legs, and mostly this doesn't seem to hurt them, and the squirmlings' constant attacks on the Whispers seem to do more to the Whisper than the Whisper does to them.  But every so often a squirmling vented from a Whisper has its brown coloration replaced with Hydra-red, and it looks alarming to see Hydra-red squirmlings in the crowd near Whispers.  The Squirm cult didn't like the mangling power of the Whispers and didn't like the infamous red crystalline structure of them, and decided that they would bring firepower through their breach.  And since the Whispers largely ignore other intruders to Squirm, being overwhelmed fighting squirmlings, they were able to set up a killbox around the Whisper.

20:31.  The Whisper reacted when they shot it and started attacking them, but because they were able to set up ideal conditions for battle, they were able to down it without taking losses.  A whole lot of squirmlings got blown up in the process, but the Whisper was destroyed, and the squirmlings flowed back into the area sans Whisper, where they went about their business much more placidly after that.  The Cult's VIPs reveal the story of this combat to the player group at some critical juncture when the players might be influenced by it.  Just before the story is revealed, one of the other VIPs says, "Don't tell them that, we might be expected to do it again!"  Whether that fear is accurate depends on the players.

20:36.  If I'm tracking my own fasts, I can eat hard candies, too.

20:39.  Not that I'm eating a hard candy right now.  I'm just thinking that I'd allow it for myself.  I don't want any right now.

20:39.  The Stifle cult that I was imagining would be far, far less developed, with far, far less idea of what the hell they're doing.

21:27.  I knocked down my treadmill's UI device, causing it to lose track of the amount I used the device.  I used it for 2 hours at 1.2 mph, which it reports as 1.1 mph.