# Collected Thoughts on The Viceroy

This page is currently almost blank, but I'm intending to develop it into a collected reference pointer to stuff I've said elsewhere about [[The-Viceroy]].

---
When I eventually fill this out, it will contain and/or reorganize the texts that I've posted to my Steam account page while contemplating The Viceroy.  I hope Steam doesn't lose them!

---
Preserved fragments:
/\ - 1
"Ignoring the question of sustainability at other levels, what do YOU need to most nearly approximate stability at YOUR level?"

"Administrators.  Give me people who can motivate others to follow protocols exactly.  For all the complaints against bureaucracy, people never understand the degree to which they are complaining about specifically faulty bureaucracies.  Fifty excellent middle managers can nigh-indefinitely operate the immortality protocols for a mid-sized territory.  Any less excellent structure will be unsustainable, while any structure trying to achieve that end with fewer truly excellent bureaucrats is a pure false economy - at least at THIS level.  Note also that no territory runs immortality protocols alone; fifty excellent managers will suffice for no territory."
\/ - 1

---
I like seeing iterative refinements of simulation titles.  I think it's a valid and historically effective way of pushing simulations towards their best potential, and that the effectiveness of the process for yielding quality improvements can be emphasized by pointing out the way that simulation products generally fail in the market if they produce an iteration that is of lower quality than its predecessor.

I also like thinking about speculative possible content for cultural products that I enjoy.  In the vein of this and the previous statement, the following section is for suggestions about a hypothetical The Viceroy 2.  I am producing and publishing this for my own enjoyment, independently of the odds that such a product will ever exist.

Suggestions for Viceroy 2:
1. [[collapse-type-suggestions]]
2. Every research project could offer two actions to the player.  One of them increases something in exchange for bureaucratic waste, as currently implemented.  The other demerits one possible objective stat in exchange for boosting another possible objective stat.  Some of these could directly oppose each other.  I would term these "deviations", and thus-classify The Panarch's Mercy itself (though its costs and effect should be unchanged).  Deviations should share the trait that they cannot occur as Protected constructs.  Implementing this suggestion, a justification for the term "deviations" should be supplied in the University, providing a lore-friendly explanation that "deviations" are policy constructs which the Commonwealth will not pledge to protect, but which Viceroys may implement in their territories at their discretion should they have the relevant technologies.

---
I didn't really end up organizing my thoughts here at all the way I intended to, but I don't know where else to put this essay.  It's going to be part of the book I write about The Viceroy, or so goes the intention.  (I really need to learn LaTeX and how to use Lorem Ipsum to lay out the book appropriately.)

**What is Influence?**
Put simply, Influence in this game is stable immortals.  A stable immortal is someone who has knowable requirements and knowable outputs.  They're someone who can be plugged in to various social systems as a kind of I/O pattern.  I came to this conclusion by thinking about what Influence 'buys' in the game, and noting that the answer is: influence buys great people and faithful administrators.  The resource that the Viceroys struggle for map after map are great people and faithful administrators.

If you don't place down the Panarch's Mercy, you only get immortals from the objectives.  From this I inferred that every Objective structure identifies a potential stable immortal who the Panarchy or the Commonwealth believes can be stabilized if *at that moment in time,* that policy is enacted in a stable manner.  Each of these is a kind of ascension moment in which one of the two rising factions identifies someone they love and really want to see live forever.

If you DO place down the Panarch's Mercy, the Empire starts to shine with its many population increasing technologies.  Each of these stabilizes many people and/or encourages populations to grow in ways that highlight many stable people.  The massive constructs and industrious specializations of the Empire provide a massive amount of data for the galaxy's Influence search.  This suggests a different interpretation of the catastrophic bureaucratic waste that inflicts every territory: that it is the review of massive numbers of people to determine which ones should be granted the right to have access to rejuvenation independently of Viceregal administrations.

What are Happiness technologies in this evaluation?  I interpret Happiness technologies as *common stabilization requirements*.  Here I look again to the Empire for inspiration.  The Orbital Observers tech tree suggests that some people become very stable if the water is drugged in various ways.  Those are stable immortals with a specific requirement.  They cannot be used in other territories unless those territories meet that requirement, but then they *can* be used in those territories that *do* meet that requirement.  While I mention here the Empire first, it is of course true that of the three factions, the Commonwealth is most dedicated to finding stable immortals by meeting peoples' psychological needs.  Some people cannot survive in society unless crime is unheard of (Enlightened Policing), relief from labor is the accepted measure of very advanced economies (Leisure Subsidies), or poverty is extinguished (Basic Income).  There is a ready interpretation along these lines for every Happiness technology.

To contrast with Happiness influence, there are pure Influence technologies.  These promote immortality widely.  While both the Empire and the Commonwealth have *one* pure Influence technology each, pure Influence is the Panarchy's preferred method of finding stable immortals.  I interpret the Panarchic Resorts as finding outright service workers for immortality.  Recruiting such lowly people may seem odd when contrasted against the Viceroy's acquisition of great people and faithful administrators, but the more the Viceroy develops their administration, the more "partial influence" (which is to say particles of influence) they must gather in order to gain more great people and faithful administrators.  I believe that is because the more advanced administrations become more gracious and supportive of galactic society, which needs stable immortals quite distinctly.  They're growing people and trying to create people of extraordinary resilience who can help make worlds across the galaxy better.

The Panarchy's embrace of pure influence is somewhat strange when contrasted with the Commonwealth's search for happiness influence.  The Panarchic immortals do not 'need' all the misery reducers in order to function, whereas the Commonwealth must 'need' all the happiness technologies it uses.  This could make the Panarchy's immortals more free-flowing across the galaxy.  On the other hand, Panarchic Immortals may need Influence technologies just as the Commonwealth immortals need Happiness technologies.  Likewise, as each technology can produce immortals via objectives, every technology in the galaxy is needed by *someone*.

There is one other detail that I imagine about stable immortals: they are barely natalistic or antinatalistic.  They reproduce rarely and carefully if they reproduce at all.  This is very important to note, because societies that reproduce limitlessly run out their resources very badly.  This ties in with the Panarchy's fixation on pure influence technologies, because the Panarchy also has the greatest asexuality in its structuring.  The Panarch's Children technology for instance provides a strong asexual impetus in society.  The Empire also can cultivate asexuals through its reproduction technologies, as in theory can the Commonwealth, though I have been failing to reconstruct Reproduction Mandates in my mind.

In short, while populations in this game swell bizarrely towards the trillions, stable immortals are quite hard to come by.  A lot of people in this setting are immortal without being wholly stable as immortals.  Each faction would argue that they are the very best at raising people from rejuvenated to immortal.  The Empire would argue that they provide the largest population base for potential immortals to be drawn from, but I find the implications of that disturbing, as they are farming people to seek the potentially immortal among them.  The Panarchy would argue that they provide the largest number of points from which people are ascended to the ranks of the galaxy's true immortals.  I consider the Panarchy's promotion of immortality to be beautiful and essential, however I think the Commonwealth is the actual victor in this contest.  Their fixation on the public's happiness is a beautiful measure of great advancement in society.  Furthermore, I rate very highly the fact that the Commonwealth encourages free movement among the rejuvenated, so that people who long to be stable immortals can travel across the galaxy until they find the place where they truly belong.  I rate the Commonwealth as the faction with the greatest virtue in raising true immortals.

There is one further point I wish to say: as Wealth levels increase, I imagine ever-larger fractions of the population are made of intelligent nanites, virtual entities, sapient robots with few needs, and other hyperdense constructs which can host large 'populations' in small land areas.  When I came away from a territory with Wealth 29 zones, I couldn't help feeling that I'd just recruited a whole lot of nanotechnological swarm intellects to the task of administrating future territories, and I consider that beautiful as well...  Yet also disturbing.  Do such beings exist everywhere in this setting, disdained by those who cling to bodies with greater needs?

---
Back to [[The-Viceroy]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[collapse-type-suggestions]: collapse-type-suggestions.md "Collapse Type Suggestions"
[The-Viceroy]: The-Viceroy.md "The-Viceroy"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"