#Chem131-2022-04-20

Alcohols are classified by the number of alkyl groups attached to the carbon bonded to the hydroxyl.  Primary alcohols are attached to a carbon attached to one alkyl group.  Secondary and tertiary alcohols are attached to a carbon attached to two and three alkyl groups, respectively.

Because there is a large electronegativity difference between the oxygen and hydrogen atoms in the -OH group, the oxygen has a partially negative charge, the hydrogen has a partially positive charge, and hydrogen bonds form between the oxygen of one alcohol and hydrogen in the -OH group of another alcohol.  Alcohols have higher boiling points than alkanes and ethers of similar mass, because a higher temperature is required to break their hydrogen bonds.

Hydrogen bonds cannot form between ether molecules because they have no polar -OH groups.  The boiling points of ethers are similar to those of alkanes of similar mass, because neither can form hydrogen bonds.

Alcohols contain polar -OH groups and form hydrogen bonds with water.  With 1-4 carbon atoms they are soluble in water.  With 5 or more carbon atoms they are not.  The extra carbons are too cumbersome and will cause the alcohol to separate out.

Ethers can form hydrogen bonds with water.  They have fewer hydrogen bonds possible than alcohol and will form fewer.  They are only slightly soluble in water when they have fewer than 4 carbon atoms.  They are not soluble in water if they have 5 or more carbon atoms.

(Commentary:  Nobody raises their hand to answer the study checks, so there's an interesting little social game I play every time, trying to predict when someone else will respond so I can choir them.  I don't want to speak too soon and be answering all of them myself, nor too late such that I seem like I picked up the answer from others.)

Phenols, once used as antiseptics, are slightly soluble in water thanks to the -OH group that can form hydrogen bonds with water.  Phenols can react with water to produce phenoxide ions.  In water, the -OH group of phenol ionizes slightly, which makes it a weak acid (Ka=1x1-^=10).  (The reaction is given that Phenol + H2O <-> Phenoxide- + H3O+, a reaction where the -OH group on the phenol loses its hydrogen atom to the H2O molecule.). Phenols are corrosive and irritating to the skin.

Antiseptics, substances applied to the skin to kill microorganisms that cause infection were once made of dilute solutions of phenol.  They were once used to disinfect wounds to prevent post-surgical infections such as gangrene.  They are not used in Lysol, used to disinfect surfaces, and contain the antiseptics 2-phenylphenol and 2-benzyl-4-chlorophenol.  (The molecule is given of 2-phenylphenol, a molecule with two benzene rings and an OH group.). (The molecule is given of 2-benzyl-4-chlorophenyl, a molecule with two benzene rings, an -OH group, and a chorine atom.)

(Commentary:  Phenylphenol is an interesting name.  That indicates that a benzene ring (phenyl) is attached to a phenol (a benzene ring with a hydroxyl group).)

Hand sanitizers containing ethanol as their active ingredient kill most bacteria and viruses that spread colds and flus.  They are apprxoimately 60% (v/v) but can be as high as 85% (v/v).  They are highly flammable and burn with a transparent, blue flame.  They may also contain triclosan, which can accumulate in the environment, promoting growth of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.  (Commentary:  The teacher recommends avoiding hand sanitizers containing triclosan.)  (The molecule is given for triclosan, which contains two benzene groups, one of which is a phenol, connected by an oxygen.  The benzene ring has two chloride atoms while the phenol ring has one chloride atom, both of which are in the 1,3 or m-positioning.  We won't need to memorize this one, but it looks interesting.  Is that called a diphenyl ether?)

A flaming dessert is prepared using heat from the combustion of an alcohol.  (The reaction is given whereby 1 CH3-CH2-OH + 3O2 --> 2 CO2 + 3 H2O + energy.)  (Commentary:  This is the first slide of section 13.4.)  (Commentary:  The teacher adds that energy-releasing reactions such as this are "exothermic".)

Alcohols undergo dehydration when heated with an acid catalyst.  (The reaction is given whereby CH3-CH2-OH treated with H+ and heat -> CH2=CH2 + H2O.)  The loss of -H and -OH from adjacent carbon atoms from the same alcohol produces an alkene and a water molecule.

The dehydration of a secondary alcohol can result in the formation of a minor product and a major product.  Saytzeff's rule states that the major product is the one that forms by removing the H from the carbon atom (adjacent to the carbon atom attached to the -OH group) that has fewer H atoms.  The minor product is the one that forms by removing the H from the carbon atom that has more H atoms.  The major product is 90% of the output and the minor product is 10% of the output.  (The reaction is given whereby 2-butanol heated with an aacid yields 2-butene (90%) and 1-butene (10%).)

Ethers form when dehydration of alcohols takes place at low temperatures.  (The reaction is given whereby two methanol molecules treated with H2 -> dimethyl ether + H2O.)

In organic chemistry, oxidation reactions increase the number of C-O bonds by the addition of oxygen or the loss of hydrogen atoms.  Reduction reactions reduce the number of C-O bonds by the gain of H atoms.  (The reactions are given that primary alcohols oxidize to aldehydes and aldehydes reduce to primary alcohols, while aldehydes oxidize to carboxylic acid and carboxylic acids reduce to aldehydes.  Secondary alcohols oxidize to ketones, while ketones reduce to secondary alcohols.)  (Commentary:  The teacher called out this definition of oxidation and reduction as very important to organic chemistry.)

(Commentary:  The preceding paragraph was modified on 2022-05-25 to include details about primary and secondary alcohol dynamics.)

To indicate the process of oxidation, O is placed over the reaction arrow.  When a primary alcohol is oxidized, one H is removed from the -OH, another -H is removed from the carbon bonded to -OH, and an aldehyde is produced.  (The reaction is given that ethanol oxidizes into ethanal aka acetaldehyde.)

Aldehydes can further oxidize to produce a carboxylic acid.  (The reaction is given that ethanal aka acetaldehyde oxidizes into ethanoic acid aka acetic acid.)

When a secondary alcohol is oxidized, one H is removed from the -OH and another -H is removed from the carbon bonded to the -OH, producing a ketone and an H2O molecule.  (A reaction is given that 2-propanol aka isopropyl alcohol oxidizes into 2-propanone aka acetone aka dimethyl ketone.)

Tertiary alcohols do not readily oxidize because there is no hydrogen atom on the carbon atom bonded to the -OH group.

Methanol aka methyl alcohol is highly toxic and found in  windshield washer fluid, Sterno, and paint strippers.  It is rapidly absorbed and oxidized to formaldehyde and then formic acid.

When thiols undergo oxidation, an H atom is lost from each of two -SH groups.  The product is a disulfide.  (A reaction is given whereby two thiols oxidize to a disulfide.  CH3-S-H + H-S-Ch3 -> CH3-S-S-CH3 + H2O.)  Protein in hair is cross-linked by disulfide bonds found in the amino acid cysteine.

Ethanol acts as a depressant and kills or disables more people than does any other drug.  Consumption can be analyzed by using a breathalyzer.  It's metabolized by a social drinker at a rate of 12-15 mg/dL per hour.  It's metabolized by an alcoholic at a rate of 30 mg/dL per hour.  (Commentary:  What are mg/dL?  Is that milligrams per deciliter?)

(The reaction is given that ethyl alcohol oxidizes to acetaldehyde, which oxidizes to acetic acid, which is metabolized into 2CO2 + H2O.)  The acetaldehyde produced from ethanol in the liver is further oxidized to acetic acid, which is converted to carbon dioxide and water in the citric acid cycle.   Liver enzymes can eventually break down ethanol, but the aldehyde and carboxylic acid intermediates can cause considerable damage to liver cells.

(Commentary:  It's fun to attempt, but I'm not doing well at choiring.  This isn't a classroom of people thinking at the same rate.)

---
Back to [[CHEM131]]