#Chem140-2022-11-02

Manganese (VII) arsenide has the formula is formed of ions with a 7+ Mn ion and a 3- As ion, resulting in the formula Mn3As7.  The teacher has pointed out that crossing the two numbers yields this result.

However, doing the same with lead (ii) oxide (PbO) does not work this way, as in this example lead has a 2+ ionic charge and oxygen has a 2- ionic charge, yielding (when crossed) Pb2O2.  The teacher has pointed out that ionic compounds are formed of the simplest ratio of the ions.  The 2s simplify to 1s.

Working backwards can work as well.  Pb3N2 is lead (ii) nitride, which is formed of lead ions with a 2+ charge and nitrogen ions with a 3- charge.

Always remember the roman numerals on variable charge metals!

The majority of polyatomic ions end in -ate or -ite, with exceptions such as OH- "hydroxide" and CN- "cyanide".  Tellurate TeO42-, Tellurite TeO32-

I wish I knew why the additional oxygen atoms don't modify the ionic charge of the tellurium polyatomic ions.  I also wish I knew why -ate and -ite were chosen for these names.

Adding H+ (protons) to neutralize charge creates oxyacids.  Telluric acid is thus H2TeO4.  Sulfuric acid is H2SO4; Sulfurous acid is H2SO3.  HNO3 is nitric acid.  HNO2 is nitrous acid.

---
The exam is moving from 11/16 to 11/14.  Exam 3 is on 11/14.

---
Grams of an element can find the moles of that element, which can find the number of atoms of that element.  In a compound, moles of compound element B can find moles of compound element A by using the chemical formula as a conversion factor, with the example that 1 mole of oxygen in H2O is also 2 moles of hydrogen.  Likewise, the atoms of compound B can find atoms of compound element A via the ratio in the compound.

---
Back to [[CHEM140]]