#Chem140-2022-10-14

I'd forgotten about leaving a blank in the test, but this class expected me to have memorized the conversion between celsius and kelvin.  I know it's a simple addition, but I don't have it memorized.  I wonder if that will come back.

---
Light is both a wave and a particle.  Each particle of light is called a photon.  Each particle is associated with a certain amount of energy called a quantum of energy.

---
Electrons are also both a particle and a wave.  The quantum mechanical model of the atom incorporates the wave electrons.

The models of the atom thus far discussed are the plum pudding model, Rutherford's nuclear model, and Bohr's model.  To this is added the quantum mechanical model, which is the latest model.

In Bohr's model, the electrons are in orbits with specific paths and specific amounts of energy.  In the quantum mechanical model, electrons are waves with probability areas and specific energy.

The probability areas of the electrons are called "orbitals".  The electron is found at a random location within the orbital.  The energy level of the orbital increases its size.  The specific energy number of the orbital is called the pricnipal quantum number.  Each orbital accommodates a maximum of two electrons, which is Pauli's Exclusion Principle.  Each electron spins either clockwise or anticlockwise with the Earth's magnetic field, and within a given orbital they must have opposite spin.

The circular wave orbitals are called 's' orbitals.  There is one s orbital per specific energy.

The dumbbell-shaped orbitals are called 'p' orbitals, which look as though they were pinched in the middle.  There are three p orbitals per specific energy, the px, pz, and py orbital, for the three different axes.  There is never a 1p orbital, as the first specific energy where p orbitals manifest is the 2p level.

The 'd' orbitals exist in five types, the dxy, dxz, dz^2, dyz, and d(x^2-y^2) orbitals.  These are also called the 'cloverleaf' orbitals, but note that the dz^2 orbital has a different shape from the others.

The 'f' orbitals exist in 7 types, the simplest of which resembles a flower due to its 8-lobed structure.

There are higher orbitals 'g', 'h', and 'i', but they are not filled on atoms we know.

---
Electron configuration of atoms/ions
aka electron address?  (I don't understand the little note written on the board here.)
These are also called shells.

7    7s <-> 7i
6   6s, 6p, 6d, 6f, 6g, 6h
5   5s, 5p, 5d, 5f,  5g
4   4s, 4p, 4d, 4f
3   3s, 3p, 3d
2   2s, 2p
1   1s
Nucleus

Electron configurations of:
Hydrogen - 1e - 1s^1
Helium - 2e - 1s^2
Lithium - 3e - 1s^2 2s^1
Beryllium - 4e - 1s^2 2s^2
Boron - 5e - 1s^2 2s^2 2px^1
Carbon - 6e - 1s^2 2s^2 2px^1 2py^1
Nitrogen - 7e - 1s^2 2s^2 2px^1 2py^1 2pz^1

The first number is the principal quantum number while the superscript refers to how many electrons have filled that level.

Aufbau's rule specifies that lower energy levels fill up before higher energy levels.  (This seems intuitively obvious, but I'm recording it to get the name "Aufbau's rule" in my notes in case the specific name of the rule gets tested.)

Hund's rule specifies that within electron levels of a given energy level, the electrons fill singly before pairing up.

---
Back to [[CHEM140]]