#Chem131-2022-04-27

14.3 Oxidation and Reduction of Aldehydes and Ketones

In Toliens' test, a "silver mirror" forms when the oxidation of an aldehyde reduces silver ions to metallic silver.  The silvery surface of a mirror is formed in a similar way.  (Commentary:  Silver mirrors are rare, so this doesn't mean that mirrors are silver.  Does this instead mean that mirrors are formed by chemical deposition of metals?)

Aldehydes oxidize readily to form carboxylic acids.  (The esxample is given of ethanal oxidizing to ethanoic acid.)

Toliens' test may be used to distinguish between aldehydes and ketones because it oxidizes aldehydes but not ketones.  It utilizes Toliens' reagent, which is a solution of Ag+ (silver cation) and ammonia.  As the aldehyde is oxidized, Ag+ is reduced and forms a layer called a silver mirror on the inside of the container.

Benedict's test gives a positive result with compounds that have an aldehyde functional group with an adjacent hydroxyl (-OH) group.  It utilizes Benedict's solution, which contains Cu^2+ (CuSO4).  When the solution is added to this type of aldhyde and heated, a brick red solid of Cu2O forms.  (Commentary:  Cu^2+ is the cupric ion, which carries a double charge.  Cu^2+ notation distinguishes it from Cu2+, which would be a pair of copper atoms bonded together and still carrying a positive charge.  I don't think Cu2+ is possible, but I'm clarifying a new notation for my notes.)

Because sugars such as glucose contain this type of aldehyde grouping, Benedict's reagent can be used to determine the presence of glucose in blood or urine.

(Commentary:  The teacher has OIL RIG written on the whiteboard for some reason, and I'm perplexed by it.)

Aldehydes and ketones are reduced by hydrogen (H2) or sodium borohydride (NaBH4) and a catalyst such as nickel, platinum, or palladium.  They are reduced to alcohols by decreasing the number of carbon-oxygen bonds (and increasing the C-H bonds).  (Commentary:  Addition increases oxygen bonds.  Reduction reduces oxygen bonds.  If I understand correctly.)

Aldehydes are reduced to primary alcohols.  (The example is given of propanal aka propionaldehyde being reduced to 1-propanol aka propyl alcohol.)

14.4 Hemiacetals and acetals

Maltose, a disaccharide, is produced from the hydrolysis of of the starches in grains, such as barley.  In maltose, an acetal bond links two glucose molecules.  (Commentary:  I do not need this slide.)

(Commentary:  I'm energized, but distracted.  I surprised the teacher by falling behind on the class activity.  Typically I'm ahead on the class activity.  Today's an atypically poor day for study.)

When one alcohol adds to an aldehyde or ketone in the presence of an acid catalyst, the product is a hemiacetal.  Hemiacetals contain two functional groups on the same carbon atom, a -OH group and an -OR group.  (Commentary:  Teacher explains that -OR means an alkyl or aromatic group.) (Commentary:  Hemiacetals are like alcohols and ketones occurring in the same reaction at the same place.)

Hemiacetals are generally unstable and react with a second molecule of the alcohol to form a stable acetal and water.  (Commentary:  The acetal appears to be two -OR groups attached to the carbon.  They're oxygen-inclusive branches in the chains of alkyls or aromatics, then.). Acetals contain to alkoxy (-OR) groups on the same carbon atoms.

The reactions in the formation of hemiacetals and acetals are reversible.  (This is shown by a page of reactions linked by double arrows under H+.  The examples are given of Ethanol+Methanol <-> Hemiacetal <-> Acetal, then Propanone+Ethanol <-> Hemiacetal <-> Acetal.)  (Commentary:  I don't have or don't know how to use a double-arrow key, so I've substituted <-> in these notes.)

One very important type of hemiacetal that can be isolated is a cyclic hemiacetal that forms when the carbonyl group and the -OH group are in the same molecule.

Glucose forms a six-carbon cyclic hemiacetal when the -OH group on carbon 5 bonds with C=O group on carbon 1.  (Commentary:  Good grief, I don't know how to describe the visualization this time.)  The hemiacetal of glucose is so stable that almost all the glucose exists as the cyclic hemiacetal in aqueous solution.

An alcohol can add to the cyclic hemiacetal and form a cyclic acetal.  This reaction explains how sugar molecules can link together and form disaccharides and polysaccharides.  (The example is given of a cyclic hemiacetal + HO-CH3 <-> cyclic acetal.  This occurs in an acidic environment indicated by the H+ over the double-arrow.)

Maltose is a disaccharide consisting of two glucose molecules.  (The example is given of the structure of Maltose, which is two glucose molecules connected by an oxygen atom.). An acetal bond links two glucose molecules in maltose.  One carbon atom in glucose retains the cyclic hemiacetal bond.  (Commentary:  The teacher says the cyclic hemiacetal bond can "open up", but the acetal bond cannot.)

(Commentary:  We haven't been given an IUPAC naming scheme for acetals.  Have we reached the limit of the IUPAC?)

---
Back to [[CHEM131]]