#Chem140-2022-10-26

Compounds come in two kinds, molecular compounds and ionic compounds.  Molecular compounds form covalent bonds that share electrons.  Nonmetals and metalloids form molecular compounds.  There are over 10^6 molecular compounds.  Metals and NH4+ form ionic compounds instead, where electrons are transferred.  There are somethingl ike 10,000 ionic compounds.

Binary molecular compounds without hydrogen are named with greek prefixes for count, such as mono- and di-.  The examples given are CO2 "carbon dioxide", CO "carbon monoxide", and P2O5 "diphosphorus pentoxide".  Mono- prefix is not used for the first element in such compounds.

Binary molecular compounds with hydrogen names are given by example.  HF is "hydrogen fluoride" in gaseous form.  HCl is "hydrogen chloride" in gaseous form and "hydrochloric acid" in aqueous solution.  H2S is "hydrogen sulfide" in gaseous form and "hydrosulfuric acid" in aqueous solution.

Oxyacids are named after their component that is neither oxygen nor hydrogen.  H3BO3 is called "boric acid", H2CO3 is called "carbonic acid", HNO3 is called "nitric acid", H3PO4 is "phosphoric acid".  H2SO4 is "sulfuric acid" and H2SO3 is "sulfurous acid".  HClO4 is "perchloric acid", HClO3 is "chloric acid", HClO2 is "chlorous acid", and HClO is "hypochlorous acid".

---
Acids are compounds that give up H+ ions in solution (Arrhenius).  H+ ions are also called protons.

---
Ionic compounds
Binary ionic compounds
Metal + nonmetal
Metals with fixed charge ions

---
Back to [[CHEM140]]