#Chem131-2022-06-15

21.5 RNA and Transcription

The genetic information in DNA is replicated in cell division and used to produce messenger RNA that codes for amino acids used in protein synthesis at the ribosomes.

RNA makes up most of the nucleic acid found in the cell.  It transmits genetic information from DNA to operate the cell.  There are several types of RNA, such as rRNA, mRNA, and tRNA.  It differs from DNA in the following ways: The sugar in RNA is ribose; the sugar in DNA is deoxyribose.  The base Uracil replaces thymine.  RNA molecules are single stranded; DNA molecules are double stranded.  RNA molecules are much smaller than DNA molecules.

There are three major types of RNA:
 * 5% of RNA is messenger RNA (mRNA)
	 * It carries genetic information for protein synthesis from DNA to the ribosomes.
 * 15% of RNA is transfer RNA (tRNA)
	 * It brings specific amino acids to the site of protein synthesis (ribosomes).
 * 80% of RNA is ribosomal RNA (rRNA)
	 * It is combined with proteins to form ribosomes.
	 * It is the site of protein synthesis.

Ribosomal RNA is the most abundant type of RNA.  It is combined with proteins to form ribosomes.  Ribosomes consist of a small subunit and a large subunit.  They are the site of protein synthesis.  (An image is given of a small subunit, a large subunit, and the two together labeled as ribosome.)

A typical tRNA molecule can be drawn as a two-dimensional cloverleaf.  The three-dimensional model shows more twists and has more of an L-shape.  It has an ***acceptor stem*** at the 3' end with the nucleotide sequence ACC where an enzyme attaches a specific amino acid by forming an ester bond with the free -OH group.  It contains an anticodon, which is a series of three bases that complements a codon of three bases on mRNA.

(A slide is dedicated to a pair of models of tRNA, one two-dimensional and the other three-dimensional.)

In the nucleus, genetic information for protein synthesis is copied from a gene in DNA into mRNA in a process called transcription.  The mRNA molecules move out of the nucleus into the cyto sol, where they bind with the ribosomes.  The tRNA molecules convert the information in the mRNA into amino acids in a process called translation.

Protein synthesis involves: transcription, in which mRNA is produced from a gene on a DNA strand, and translation, in which tRNA molecules bring amino acids to mRNA at the ribosome site to build a protein.  (An image is given depicting DNA with an arrow labeled transcription pointing to a chain of three-pip fragments labeled pre-mRNA.  The chain extends out of a yellow orb into a grey void labeled cytosol, and is there labeled mRNA.  An arrow labeled translation points from the chain labeled mRNA to a chain of beads labeled with three letter abbreviations for amino acid names.)

In transcription, a section of DNA containing the gene unwinds.  RNA polymerase uses the DNA template strand to form the new mRNA using bases that are complementary to the DNA template.  The mRNA is synthesized using complementary base pairing, with uracil (U) replacing thymine (T).  The newly formed mRNA moves out of the nucleus to ribosomes in the cytoplasm.

DNA undergoes transcription when RNA polymerase makes a complementary copy of a gene using the 3' to 5' DNA template strand.  (An image is given of the labeled DNA informational strand and the DNA template strand.  The DNA informational strand extends from 5' to 3'.  The DNA helix is interrupted by a pair of pills attached to each other, which are labeled RNA polymerase.  A zoom-in on this shows ribonucleotides adhering to the DNA template strand as the pattern dictates.)

In eukaryotes, DNA contains exons that code for proteins and introns that do not code for proteins.  A pre-mRNA is formed that includes the noncoding introns.  The noncoding introns are removed.  The exons are joined to form mRNA, which goes to the ribosomes with the information for the synthesis of protein.

(A slide is here dedicated to a simple diagram repeating that the introns are removed from the pre-MRNA to produce mature mRNA formed only of exons, which then travels from the nucleus to the cytosol.). A pre-MRNA containing copies of the exons and introns from the gene, is processed to remove the introns to form a mature mRNA that codes for a protein.

Regulation of protein synthesis is primarily controlled at the transcription level.  mRNA is only synthesized when the cell requires a particular protein.  In plants and animals, the transcription of a gene is regulated through the binding of RNA polymerase to DNA.  A group of protein complexes called **transcription factors** must recognize and bind to **promoter** segments in DNA.  Other proteins, called **activators**, bind with the transcription factor complex to increase the rate of RNA transcription.

Transcription factors at the promoter region bind RNA polymerase to DNA, which activates the transcription of a gene.

21.6 The Genetic Code and Protein Synthesis.

The function of the different types of RNA in the cell is to facilitate the task of synthesizing proteins.  (An image is given depicting DNA with an arrow labeled transcription pointing to a chain of three-pip fragments labeled pre-mRNA... etc.  This image is repeated from a previous slide.)

The genetic code consists of sets of three nucleotides (triplets) in mRNA called codons that specify the amino acids and mRNA specifies their sequence in the protein.  Each of the 20 amino acids needed to build proteins is identified by a different codon.  The genetic code has **stop** signals, UGA, UAA, and UAG, that signal the termination of protein synthesis, as well as a **start** codon, AUG, that signals the start of protein synthesis.

Table 21.6 Codons in mRNA: The Genetic Code for Amino Acids
(This table declares the codons in mRNA and which amino acid they code for.  I'm not copying this into my notes.)

To determine the amino acid sequence coded in the following section of an mRNA: 5' CCU AGC GGA CUU 3'
1. Refer to the genetic code for the identity of the amino acids.
	1. CCU = Proline
	2. AGC = Serine
	3. CGA = Glycine
	4. CUU = Leucine
2. mRNA section codes for the amino acids in the following order: Pro-Ser-Gly-Leu

Write the amino acids coded for by a section of mRNA with the following base sequence: 5' GCC GUA GAC 3'
Ala-Val-Asp

Each tRNA molecule contains a loop called an anticodon, which is a triplet of bases that complements a **codon** in mRNA.  The corresponding amino acid is attached to the acceptor stem of each tRNA by an enzyme called aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase.  Activation of tRNA occurs when the ester bond is formed between the carboxylate group of its amino acid and the hydroxyl group on the acceptor stem.  (A 2D model of tRNA is given in the "cloverleaf" form.  The anticodon is given as AGU, which corresponds to the codon UCA, which codes for serine.  The model is shown bonding to serine at the base of its acceptor stem.)

The RNA in a cell facilitates the synthesis of proteins in the following steps:  (Each of the following save the first is on its own slide, and there are images alongside that I will not be describing in this file.  Maybe I should just download the slides from this course...)
1. Genetic information encoded in DNA is transcribed and processed into mature mRNA molecules.  These molecules move out of the nucleus to the ribosomes in the cytosol.
2. mRNA leaves the nucleus and attaches to a ribosome, where the genetic information in the mRNA is translated into a sequence of amino acids in a protein.
3. Molecules of tRNA pick up specific amino acids according to their anticodons.  tRNA activation occurs when the correct amino acid is attached to each tRNA.
4. A start codon binds the first tRNA carrying the amino acid methionine to the mRNA.  As the ribosome moves along the mRNA, a new amino acid forms a peptide bond to the growing protein chain.
5. Eventually, a ribosome encounters a stop codon with no corresponding tRNAs, which signals the termination of the polypeptide sequence and its release from the ribosome.

Study check.  The following section of DNA is used to build an mRNA for a protein: 3' GAA CCC TTT 5'
A. What is the corresponding mRNA sequence?  5' CUU GGG - AAA 3'
B.  What are the anticodons for the tRNAs?  GAA CCC UUU
C.  What is the amino acid order in the peptide?  Leu-Gly-Lys

---
Back to [[CHEM131]]