#Chem131-2022-05-16

Lipids are naturally occurring compounds in cells and tissues.  They are soluble in organic solvents, but not in water.

17.2 Fatty Acids

We might think of saturated fatty acids as chips with regular shapes that stack closely together in a can.  Similarly, irregularly shaped chips would be like unsaturated fatty acids that do not fit closely together.

Fatty acids, the simplest type of lipids, are long, unbranched carbon chains with a carboxylic acid group at the end.  (Teacher's commentary:  The carboxylic acid group are why they are called acids.). They are typically 12-18 carbon atoms long.  They are insoluble in water because of the long carbon chain.  They are considered saturated when they do not contain C=C double bonds in the carbon chain.  They are considered unsaturated when they contain C=C double bonds in the carbon chain.

The structural formula of lauric acid can be drawn in several forms: (a series of images of Lauric acid are given.)  In a line-angle structural formula, the ends and bends of the line are the carbon atoms.

Fatty acids can be saturated, with only C-C single bonds in the carbon chains.  (A table is given of lauric acid with 12 carbons and a melting point of 44C, myristic acid with 14 carbons and a melting point of 55C, palmistic acid with 16 carbons and a melting point of 63C, and stearic acid with 18 carbons and a melting point of 69C.  The structure of each is also given.)

Fatty acids can be monounsaturated, with only one C=C double bond in the carbon chain.  (A table is given of palmitoleic acid, with 16 carbon atoms, 1 double bond, and a melting point of 0C, as well as oleic acid, with 18 carbon atoms, 1 double bond, and a melting point of 14C.  The structure of each is also given.)

Fatty acids can be polyunsaturated, with at least two double C=C bonds in the carbon chain.  (A table is given of linoleic acid with 18 carbons, 2 double bonds, and a melting point of -5C, linolenic acid with 18 carbons, 3 double bonds, and a melting point of -11C, and arachidonic acid with 20 carbons, 4 double bonds, and a melting point of -50C.  The structure of each is also given.)

Unsaturated fatty acids can be drawn as cis and trans isomers.  Oleic acid is a monounsaturated fatty acid found in olives, with one cis double bond at carbon 9.  The trans isomer of oleic acid is called elaidic acid and has a straight chain without a kink.  Almost all naturally occurring unsaturated fatty acids have one or more cis double bonds.

Humans are capable of synthesizing some fatty acids from carbohydrates or other fatty acids.  Humans cannot synthesize sufficient amounts of polyunsaturated fatty acids such as linoleic acid, linolenic acid, and arachidonic acid.  Because these polyunsaturated fatty acids must be obtained from the diet, they are known as essential fatty acids.

Saturated fatty acids contain only single C-C bonds and fit closely together in a regular pattern, with strong dispersion forces between carbon chains.  They require a significant amount of energy and high temperatures to separate and melt.  They are solids at room temperature.  (An image is given of three line-angle formulas fitting together in a regular pattern.)

Unsaturated fatty acids with cis double bonds have "kinks" in the fatty acid chain.  They do not pack closely together and have fewer attractions between chains.  They are liquids at room temperature.  (An image is given of oleic acid's structure vs stearic acid's structure.  The stearic acid is depicted lying in a regular pattern whereas the oleic acid's structure is depicted in a heap with other examples of itself.  These are compared to an irregular pile of potato chips under the oleic acid's side vs a regular pile of Pringles under the stearic acid's side.)

Prostaglandins are hormone-like substances produced in small amounts in most cells.  They have many functions, such as lowering or raising blood pressure and stimulating contraction and relaxation of the smooth muscle of the uterus.  They are also known as eicosanoids, formed from arachidonic acid, a polunsaturated fatty acid with 20 carbon atoms.

Prostaglandins differ by the substituents attached to the five-carbon ring:  Prostaglandin E (PGE) has a ketone group on carbon 9, while prostaglandin F (PGF) has a hydroxyl group on carbon 9.  The number of double bonds is shown as a subscript 1 or 2.

When tissues are injured, arachidonic acid is converted to prostaglandins that produce inflammation and pain in the area.  (The example is given of arachidonic acid becoming PGF2, PGE1, and PGF1.)

Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) block production of prostaglandins, decreasing pain and inflammation.

(Commentary:  Ow, my own pain levels are creeping up.  Maybe it's just for thinking about pain in class...)

Unsaturated fats such as those in vegetable oils and fish are recogvnized as more beneficial to health than saturated fats.  Vegetavles contain omega-6 acids, meaning the first double bond occurs at carbon 6 counting from the methyl end of the carbon chain.  (The example is given of linoleic acid and arachidonic acid, both of which are omega-6 acids.)

17.3 Waxes and Triacylglycerols

(An image is given of...  Tch, nevermind.)  (Teacher's commentary:  A wax is an ester with a long chain fatty acid bonded to a long chain alcohol.)

Waxes are naturally found in plants and animals.  They are found on the surface of fruits and on the leaves and stems of plants, where they help prevent loss of water and damage from pests.  They are found on the skin, fur, and feathers of animals and provide a waterproof coating.

Some Typical Waxes (A table is given listing beeswax, whose source is honeycomb and whose uses are candles, shoe polish, and wax paper, canauba wax, whose source is the Brazillian palm tree and whose uses are waxes for furniture, cars, floors, and shoes, and Jojoba wax, whose source is the Jojoba bush, and whose uses are candles, soaps, and cosmetics.)

In the body, fatty acids are stored as triacylgycerols (aka triglycerides), which are esters of glycerol, a trihydroxy alcohol, and fatty acids.  They are formed when three hydroxyl groups of glycerol react with the carboxyl groups of three fatty acids.  They are named by changing glycerol to glyceryl and naming the fatty acids as carboxylates.

The triacylgycerol formed when the esterification of glycerol and three stearic acid molecules is named glyceryl tristearate.  The common name of this compound is tristearin.  (The reaction is given of glycerol + 3 stearic acid molecules -> glyceryl tristearate, aka tristearin.  All compounds are depicted in their condensed structural formula.)

Triacyglycerols may contain different fatty acids, such as the triacylglyceroll made from stearic, oleic, and palmitic acids.  (The condensed structural formula is given for this, which is labeled "a mixed triacylglycerol".)

Triacylglycerols are the major form of energy storage for animals.  As the external temperature drops, animals go into hibernation, and stored fat in the form of triacylglycerols is their only source of energy.  (A picture of a polar bear is captioned, "Prior to hibernation, a polar bear eats food with a high caloric content.")

(A drawing practice slide for drawing tricylglycerols.  It involves drawing a tricylglycerol formed of palmitoleic acid.  The result is labeled glyceryl tripalmitoleate, aka tripalmitolein.)

A fat is usually solid at room temperature.  They usually come from animal sources such as meat, whole milk, butter, or cheese.  An oil is usually liquid at room temperature.  They are usually obtained from plant sources as corn or olives.

Oils have more unsaturated fats.  They have cis double bonds that cause "kinks" in the fatty acid chain.  They cannot pack triacylglycerol molecules as close together as in fats.  They have lower melting points than do saturated fats.  They are liquids at room temperature.

Olive oil contains a high percentage of oleic acid, which is a monounsaturated fatty acid with one cis double bond, causing kinks that do not allow close packing.  (An image is given of a space-filling model of glycerol trioleate, which splays its kinked molecules.)

Saturated fatty acids have higher melting points than do unsaturated fatty acids because they pack more tightly.  They are usually found in animal fats, coconut oil, and palm oil.  (An image is given of a space-filling model of tristearin, which splays its molecules a little bit, but each 'arm' is a straight chain.)

(A table is given of saturated and unsaturated fatty acids in fats and oils.  Three solids are given: beef tallow, butter, and coconut.  Six liquids are given: olive, canola, soybean, sunflower, safflower, and corn.)

---
Back to [[CHEM131]]