#Chem140-2022-10-10

Today's lesson is mostly on atoms, which I think I understand well enough.  I'm just opening this to mention a few specifics.

Dalton's atomic theory is from 1808 and specifies that 1) atom is indivisible, smallest particle of a substance (not true), 2) All atoms of an element are identical, have same mass (not true; isotopes), 3) Elements combine in whole number ratios to make compounds (true), 4) Mass is conserved in chemical reactions (not true; nuclear reactions can change mass).

JJ Thomson's model of the atom is called the "plum pudding model of atom".  The positive charge was assumed to be spread all over the atom and the electrons were assumed to be sitting in it like plums in a pudding.  Rutherford in 1910 tried to confirm the plum pudding model.

Rutherford's experiment launched radioactive particles at thin gold foil contained in a fluorescent screen.  The vast majority of the particles went directly through.  A tiny minority of particles deflected back.  Rutherford reasoned that only the particles which hit the atoms directly in the center were deflected, and thus predicted that the atoms had a positively charged center and electrons moving around it.  The result is called Rutherford's nuclear model of atom.

The size of the nucleus is given as 10^-15 m vs the size of the atom being 10^-10 m.

---
C-12 is the standard isotope.  The mass of C-12 is defined to be 12.00 AMU or Atomic Mass Unit.  1 AMU = 1/12th mass of C-12 = 1.66x10^-24 g

I wish I were better at putting math into words.  I'd describe the method for calculating the average atomic mass.  I think I know it well myself, but I can't record it due to my deficit in verbalizing math.  I will not be able to teach math until I can overcome this, and that impairs my ability to study math as well.

Multiply the fractional abundance by the mass, then add the products to find the average atomic mass.  Did I get that right?  Keep four sig figs of atomic mass.

---
Elements that form consistent ions:
 * 1A elements form 1+ cations: Li+ Na+ K+ Rb+ and Cs+
 * 2A elements form 2+ cations: Be2+ Mg2+ Ca2+ Sr2+ Ba2+
 * 3A elements form 3+ cations: Al3+ Ga3+ In3+
 * 5A element forming 3- anions:  N3-
 * 6A elements form 2- anions:  O2- S2- Se2- Te2-
 * 7A elements form 1- anions:  F- Cl- Br- I-

---
Back to [[CHEM140]]