#Chem131-2022-06-13

Chapter 21: Nucleic Acids and Protein Synthesis

The general structure of a nucleotide includes a nitrogen-containing base, a petose sugar, and a phosphate group.  Learning Goal: Describe the bases and ribose sugars that make up the nucleic acids DNA and RNA.

There are two types of nucleic acids
 * Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), which may contain several million nucleotides
 * Ribonucleic acid (RNA), which may contain several thousand nucleotides
Both are unbranched polymers of repeating monomer units known as nucleotides.  Each nucleotide has three components: a base that contains nitrogen, a five-carbon sugar, and a phosphate group.

The bases in DNA and RNA are derivatives of the heterocyclic amines pyrimidine or purine.  They are either pyrimidines with a single ring containing two nitrogen atoms or purines with two rings, each containing two nitrogen atoms.  They are H+ acceptors at the nitrogen atoms in each base.  (AKA they accept protons).  (Teacher's commentary:  Something about bases accepting protons?)  (The line-angle formulae for pyrimidine and purine are given.)

In DNA, the pyrimidine bases with single rings are cytosine (C) and thymine (T).  The purine bases are adenine (A) and guanine (G).  (Line angle formulae for cytosine, thymine, adenine, and guanine are given.)

In RNA, the pyrimidine bases with single rings are cytosine (C) and uracil (U).  The purine bases with double rings are adenine (A) and guanine (G).  (Line angle formulae for cytosine, thymine, adenine, and guanine are given.)

The five-carbon sugar in RNA is ribose.  In DNA it is deoxyribose, with no O atom on C2'.  It has carbon atoms numbered with primes to distinguish them from the bases.  (Haworth structures are given for ribose and deoxyribose.)  (Commentary:  What does "numbere with primes" mean?)

A nucleoside is composed of a nitrogen-containing base and a sugar, either ribose or deoxyribose.  It has a base linked to by a beta-N-glycosidic bond to C1' of a sugar (copy description of slide image)

A nucleotide has a phosphate group attached to the C5' -OH group of a nucleoside.  The addition of a phosphate to a nucleoside forms a nucleotide.  (Copy description of slide image)

(A slide is dedicated to nucleotides of DNA and RNA.  Structural formulae are given for adenine monophosphate, guanosine monophosphate, cytidine monophosphate, uridine monophosphate, and deoxythymidine monophosphate.  Except for the uridine and deoxythymidine, there is also marked a pink H next to the OH on C2 and an alternative deoxy- name also in pink underneath each image.)

Table 21.1 Components in DNA and RNA 
* Component - DNA - RNA
* Bases - A, G, C, and T - A, G, C, and U
* Sugar - Deoxyribose - Ribose
* Nucleoside - Base + Deoxyribose - Base + Ribose
* Nucleotide - Base + Deoxyribose + Phosphate - Base + Ribose + Phosphate
* Nucleic Acid - Polymer of deoxyribose nucleotides - polymer of ribose nucleotides

The name of a nucleoside that contains a purine ends with -osine.  The name of a nucleoside that contains a pyrimidine ends with -idine.  The names of DNA nucleosides add deoxy- to the beginning of their names.  The corresponding nucleotides in RNA and DNA are named by adding monophosphate to the end of the nucleoside name.

Table 21.2 Nucleosides and Nucleotides in DNA and RNA
* Base - Nucleosides - Nucleotides
* DNA
* Adenine (A) - Deoxyadenosine (A) - Deoxyadenosine monophosphate (dAMP)
* Guanine (G) - Deoxyguanosine (G) - Deoxyguanosine monophosphate (dGMP)
* Cytosine (C) - Deoxycytidine (C) - Deoxycytidine monophosphate (dCMP)
* Thymine (T) - Deoxythymidine (T) - Deoxythymidine Monophosphate (dTMP)
* RNA
* Adenine (A) - Adenosine (A) - Adenosine monophosphate (AMP)
* Guanine (G) - Guanosine (G) - Guanosine monophosphate (GMP)
* Cytosine (C) - Cytidine (C) - Cytidine monophosphate (CMP)
* Uracil (U) - Uridine (U) - Uridine monophosphate (UMP)

Adding a phosphate to AMP forms the diphosphate, ADP.  Adding a phosphate group to ADP forms the triphosphate, ATP.  (A diagram is given AMP, ADP, and ATP - describe later)

21.2 Primary Structure of Nucleic Acids

In the primary structure of nucleic acids, each sugar in a sugar-phosphate backbone is attached to a base. (describe diagram)

In the primary structure of nucleic acids, the nucleotides are joined by phosphodiester bonds.  The 3'-OH group of the sugar in one nucleotide bonds to the phosphate group on the 5' carbon atom in the sugar of the next nucleotide.  (A diagram is given of two nucleotides reacting to join, creating a 3',5' Phosphodiester linkage.)

(A slide titled phosphodiester linkage is dedicated to a diagram - describe later)

Each nucleic acid has its own sequence of bases, which is known as its primary structure.  It carries the genetic information.  It is read from the sugar with the free 5' phosphate to the sugar with the free 3'-OH group.  It is often written using the letters of the bases to represent the correct sequence: 5' A C G T 3'.  (The diagram from the previous slide is repeated along the side of this slide. 
 ACGT is the depicted sequence in the diagram.)

In the primary structure of RNA, A, C, G, and U are connected by 3',5' phosphodiester linkages.  (A diagram is given, describe later.)

21.3 DNA Double Helix

In the model shown, the sugar-phosphate backbone is represented by a ribbon with hydrogen bonds between complementary base pairs.

Scientists determined that adenine is paired (1:1) with thymine.  Guanine is paired (1:1) with cytosine.  This relationship, known as *Chargaff's rules*, can be summarized:  Number of purine molecules = Number of pyrimidine molecules.  Adenine (A) = Thymine (T)  Guanine (G) = Cytosine (C)

Table 21.3 Percentage of Bases in the DNAs of Selected Organisms
* Organism - %A - %T - %G - %C
* Human - 30 - 30 - 20 - 20
* Chicken - 28 - 28 - 22 - 22
* Corn (maize) - 27 - 27 - 23 - 23
* Neurospora - 23 - 23 - 27 - 27

DNA conains complementary base pairs in which adenine is always linked by two hydrogen bonds to thymine (AT).  (A diagram is given of a line-angle formula of adenine connected to a line-angle formula of thymine via two hydrogen bonds between hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen.)

DNA contains complemented base pairs in which guanine is always linked by three hydrogen bonds to cytosine (GC).  (A diagram is given of a line-angle formula of guanine connected to a line-angle formula of cytosine via three hydrogen bonds between hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen.)

The DNA structure is a double helix that consists of two strands of nucleotides that form a double helix structure like a spiral staircase.  The two strands are held together by the hydrogen bonds between the bases AT and GC.  It has bases along one strand that complement the bases along the other.

21.4 DNA Replication

The function of DNA in the cells is to preserve genetic information and transfer genetic information to new cells as the strands of DNA are copied.

In DNA replication, the strands in the original or parent DNA molecule separate to allow the synthesis of complementary DNA strands.  The process begins with the unwinding of the double helix by breaking the hydrogen bonds between the complementary bases.  The resulting single strands act as templates for the synthesis of new complementary strands of DNA.  (A diagram is given of an unzipped DNA strand with "okazaki fragments" binding to it to form two new strands, labeled the leading and the lagging strand.)

Within the nucleus, nucleotide triphosphates (dATP, dTTP, dGTP, and dCTP) are available and form hydrogen bonds with their complementary bases on the template strand.  Phosphoester linkages are formed between the nucleotides as the hydrogen bonds form between the base pairs: T with A, and G with C. (A diagram is given of two strands with a dTTP molecule attaching to a DNA strand and liberating a pyrophosphate molecule.)

In each new DNA, one strand of the double helix is from the parent DNA while the other is a newly synthesized DNA strand.  Two new daughter DNA strands that are exact copies of the DNA parent are formed.  Complementary base pairing ensures the correct placement of bases in the daughter DNA strands.  (The diagram of an open DNA strand with okazaki fragments building up new strands on it is repeated.)

During DNA replication, helicase unwinds the parent DNA at several sections.  DNA polymerase catalyzes the replication process at each of the open DNA sections called replication forks.  The DNA polymerase moves in the 5'-3' direction, catalyzing the formation of new phosphodiester linkages.  The leading strand (growing in the 5'-3' direction) is synthesized continuously.  (Teacher's commentary: the professor called the leading strand easier to make".)  The lagging strand (growing in the 3'-5' direction) is synthesized in short sections called Okazaki fragments.  DNA ligase joins the Okazaki fragments.

(A slide is dedicated to a new illustration of unwound DNA being synthesized into two new strands.  Helicase, DNA ligase, and others are all included.  Better description later?)

Table 21.4 Enzymes and Proteins in DNA Replication
Enzymes and Proteins
1. Helicase - Helicase breaks the hydrogen bonds of the parent DNA strands at the replication forks, which gives two separate DNA strands.
2. Single-strand Binding Protein - Single-strand binding proteins attach to the separated parent strands to keep them apart and the bases exposed.
Leading Strand 5' to 3' - Lagging Strand 3' to 5'
	3. Primase -  - Primase synthesizes short RNA segments called primers that are starting points for DNA polymerase.
	4. DNA Polymerase - DNA polymerase catalyzes the formation of phosphodiester linkages on the new DNA strands between the 3' ends of the growing chains and available complementary nucleotides (dATP, dTTP, dGTP, and dCTP) - DNA polymerase adds nucleotides continuously in the 5' to 3' direction to a growing DNA chain - At each primer, DNA polymerase forms short, separate segments (Okazaki fragments) until it reaches the next primer and stops.
	5.  DNA Ligase - - DNA ligase joins the Okazaki fragments


---
Back to [[CHEM131]]