#Chem131-2022-05-23

17.6 Steroids: Cholesterol, Bile Salts, and Steroid Hormones

High- and low-density lipoproteins transport cholesterol between the tissues and the liver.  Excess cholesterol forms plaque that can block an artery, resulting in a heart attack.  (a) A crosss section of a normal, open artery shows no buildup of plaque. (b) a cross section of an artery that is almost completely clogged by artherosclerotic plaque.

All steroids contain a steroid nucleus, which consists of three cyclohexane rings and one cyclopentane ring, fused together.  The rings are designated A, B, C, and D.  (Commentary:  Ring D is the cyclopentane ring.)  The numbered carbon atoms begin in ring A.  Two methyl groups (18 and 19) are on carbons 10 and 13.

Cholesterol is the most important and abundant steroid in the body.  It has a hydroxyl group (-OH) on carbon 3, a double bond between carbons 5 and 6, meythyl groups on carbons 10 and 13, and an alkyl chain at carbon 17.  (The line-angle structure of cholesterol is given.)

(Commentary:  I'll need to study these.  The copied text alone is insufficient.)

Cholesterol is obtained from meats, milk, and eggs.  It is synthesized in the liver.  It is needed for cell membranes, brain and nerve tissue, steroid hormones, and vitamin D.  It clogs arteries when high levels form plaque.  (The image of an open vs a clogged artery is repeated.)

Cholesterol is considered elevated if plasma cholesterol exceeds 200 mg/dL.  It is synthesized in the liver and obtained from foods.  A diet that is low in foods containing cholesterol and saturated fats appears to be helpful in reducing the serum cholesterol level.  The American Institute for Cancer Research recommends that we limit our intake of foods high in cholesterol, such as eggs, nuts, French fries, fatty or organ meats, cheeses, butter, and coconut oil.

(A table is given of the cholesterol content of various foods.  I am very confident I will not be tested on this table in this class, but I would stress to copy it all if I were in a nutrition class!)

Bile salts are synthesized from cholesterol in the liver.  They are stored in the gallbladder.  They are secreted into the small intestine.  They have polar and nonpolar regions that act like soaps to break fat globules into smaller droplets.  They emulsify fat particles to provide large surface areas for lipases' action.  They help in absorption of cholesterol.  (An image is given with the caption "gallstones form in the gallbladder when cholesterol levels are too high".)

(A slide is dedicated to Sodium glycocholate, a bile salt.)

Lipids are nonpolar and insoluble in the aqueous environment of blood where they must travel.  Lipids are made more soluble by combining them with phosopholipids and proteins to form water-soluble complexes called lipoproteins.  (A line-angle diagram labeled as "cholesteryl ester" is given here.)  Cholesterol esters are the prevalent form of cholesterol transported by

Lipoproteins surround nonpolar lipids with polar lipids and protein for transport to cells.  They are soluble in water because the surface consists of polar lipids.  (Teacher's commentary:  Lipoproteins are soluble in water on the same principle as the micelle.)  (An image is given depicting a lipoprotein.)

Lipids are nonpolar and insoluble in the aqueous environment of blood where they must travel.  Lipids are made more soluble by combining them with phospholipids and proteins to form water-soluble complexes called lipoproteins.

Liproproteins differ in density, composition, and function.  They include very-low-density lipoproteins (VLDLs), low-density lipoproteins (LDLs), and high-density lipoproteins (HDLs)  (A table is here given labeled 17.5 Composition and Properties of Plasma Lipoproteins.  It gives density ratings in g/mL for chylomicrons, VLDL, LDL, and HDL, and then indicates composition percents for triacylglycerolss, phospholipids, cholesterol, cholesteryl esters, and proteins.  HDLs are heavily comprised of proteins.)

Low-Density Lipoproteins transport nonpolar lipids and cholesterol cells and tissues.  LDL deposits excess cholesterol in the arteries.  (Teacher's commentary:  LDL is known as bad cholesterol, while HDL is known as good cholesterol.)  High-Density Lipoprotein transport cholesterol to the liver, where it is converted to bile salts and eliminated.

Steroid hormones are chemical messengers that serve as a communication system for the body.  They are produced from cholesterol.  They are male sex hormones, testosterone and androsterone.  They are also female sex hormones, estrogens and progesterone.  They are adrenal corticosteroids from adrenal glands: mineralocorticoids (for electrolyte balance) and glucocorticoids (for glucose regulation).

(A slide is given to line-angle diagrams depicting testosterone, estradiol, progesterone, and norethindrone.)

Anabolic steroids are derivatives of testosterone.  They are used illegally to increase muscle mass.  They have side effects including fluid retention, hair growth, sleep disturbance, and liver damage.

Steroid hormones called adrenal corticosteroids are produced by the adrenal glands located on the top of each kidney.  They include aldosterone, which regulates electrolytes and water balance by the kidneys.  They also include cortisone, a glucocorticoid which increases blood glucose levels and stimulates the synthesis of glycogen in the liver.  (An image is given depicting the kidneys and the adrenal glands atop them.)

(A slide is given to line-angle diagrams depicting cortisone, aldosterone, cortisol, and prednisone.)  (Teacher's commentary: "We don't ask you to recognize this.")

Chapter 18 Amines and Amides

Indigo used in blue dyes can be obtained from tropical plants such as indigofera tinctoria.  (Two images are given, plus a line-angle formula of Indigo.)

Amines are derivatives of ammonia, NH3, in which one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced with alkyl or aromatic groups.  They contain N attached to one or more alkyl or aromatic groups.  (The line-angle formula for aniline is given.). (Commentary:  Rules for primary, secondary, and tertiary amines were given... while I wasn't paying.  "We'll have slides for that," the teacher also said.  No loss.)

In the IUPAC names for amines, the e in the corresponding alkane name is replaced with amine.  (The examples are given of methane becoming methanamine if an NH2 group is bonded to it, and ethane becoming ethanamine if an NH2 group is bonded to it.)  Amines with a chain of three or more carbon atoms are numbered to show the position of the -NH2 group and any other substituents.  (The examples are given of 2-butanamine and 3-methyl-1-butanamine.)

If there is an alkyl group attached to the nitrogen atom, the prefix N and the alkyl name are placed in front of the amine name.  If there are two alkyl groups bonded to the N atom, the prefix N is used for each, and they are listed alphabetically.  (The examples are given of N-methylethanamine, N,N-dimethyl-1-propanamine, and N-ethyl-N-methyl-1-butanamine.)

Guide to the IUPAC naming of Amines
1. Name the longest carbon chain bonded to the N atom by replacing the e of its alkane name with amine.
2. Number the carbon chain to show the position of the amine group and other substituents.
3. Any alkyl group attached to the nitrogen atom is indicated by the prefix N- and the alkyl name, which is placed in front of the amine name.

Common names are often used when alkyl groups are not branched.  List the names of the alkyl groups bonded to the N atom in alphabetical order in front of the amine.  Use prefixes di and tri to identify duplicate alkyl substituents.
 * CH3-CH2-NH2 Ethylamine
 * CH3-NH-CH3 Dimethylamine
 * CH3-N|CH3-CH2-CH3 Ethyldimethylamine

When a compound contains more than one functional group, IUPAC rules for nomenclature state that an oxygen-containing group will take priority over an -NH2 group, and the NH2 group is named as the substituent, *amino*.  (A table is given of the priority of functional groups in IUPAC Names, and will be copied here.  The second group is "name of compound" and the third group is "name as a substituent".)
1. Carboxylic acid: -oic acid
2. ester: -oate
3. amide: -amide; amido
4. aldehyde: -al; formyl
5. ketone: -one; oxo
6. alcohol: -ol; hydroxy
7. amine: -amine; amino
8. alkane: -ane; alkyl
9. halide: ; halo

Guide to Naming Compounds with Two Functional Groups
1.  Identify the functional group with the highest priority and use the longest carbon chain to give the compound name.
2. Number the carbon chain, and give the position and name of the main group and the substituent group on the carbon chain.

(A study check slide asks for a condensed formula to be named.  It's 1-amino-2-propanol.)

The amine of benzene is named aniline by IUPAC.  Alkyl groups on the N use the prefix N with the alkyl name.  (Line angle formulas are given for aniline, 4-bromoaniline, N-methylaniline, N,N-Dimethylaniline.)  Aniline is used to make many dyes, which give color to wool, cotton, and silk fibers as well as blue jeans.

Amines are classified as primary, secondary, or tertiary.  A primary amine has one carbon group bonded to the nitrogen atom.  A secondary amine has two carbon groups bonded to the nitrogen atom.  A tertiary amine has three carbon groups bonded to the nitrogen atom.  (Examples are given for each of the three, plus ammonia.)

---
Back to [[CHEM131]]