# Metr101Ch3 Notes

I'm opening this file to help myself focus on studying.  I'm proceeding at the work in a pace that is adequate for the necessary minimum engagement with all of my classes.  While tolerable, that is not ideal.  I may not intend to get into Meteorology, but that doesn't mean I don't have anything to gain from the course.  For instance, I'm fascinated by the way my environmental sciences and meteorology courses both talk about energy budgets.  I think that if I could calculate more of the energy budgets involved, I would have a better ability to define weather control experiments on Earth.  I truly believe that humanity will be able to control the weather someday - in fact, I see technologies used by farmers to control orchard temperatures as prototypical examples of how humans can understand energy mixture through air in open environments well enough to achieve targeted outcomes.

Chapter 3 is all about temperature.  I'm seized somewhat by the poetry of it.  The sun's rays soak into the ocean of our atmosphere, inducing whorls and currents around features that re-emit their warmth.  Imagine that a sea of golden glitter shared the air with us and let us watch the temperature flows move across the landscape.  The clouds and mountains are sources of sparkling chaos in this system.  Here a depression in the land channels cold air, and there a dry dark soil produces powerful thermals rising through the air in a glittering column, while far overhead great near-perpetual windstreams level out the temperature differences across the planet.

Humanity builds such large structures.  Why have we built no mountains of our own?  We could trap warmth and moisture where we need them to stop desertification.  Similar tricks of temperature management would exist if we made more willful use of water bodies as thermal storage.  The influence of large water bodies is presented in the text as inherently mediatory.  They soften the extremes of winters and summers.  If there are communities that suffer from extreme weather conditions, especially extreme weather conditions associated with extreme points in seasonal variations, do these problems strike from predictable directions?  If so, can we dig deep lakes between these communities and the recurrent weather systems that savage them?  That buffer might return a lot of value in some areas.  Putting that much effort into restore water to the biosphere might help fend off regional aridification, too...

These are great thoughts, but I don't see the math here.  I wonder how I'd find it out...   I get such a strong sense from this coursework that it's calculable.  It'd be awesome if I could define a procedure with supportive mathematics for an appropriately scaled test experiment using naval mirror-drones to try to alter precipitation in nearby coastal areas...

Homework asks a question about isotherms, I don't remember seeing that in the text...  I know what it is; it's a contour line on a meteorological map denotating areas of equivalent temperature.  Yet I missed it in the text here.  Honestly, reading is a frustrating experience in recent years.  In youth, I was able to look at every single word, without skipping anything or slowing down.  In my attempts to accelerate my reading pace lately, I've been struggling with a scattering tendency to look all over the page rather than engage in focused rapid sequential reading.  Skimming feels fast, but it's not.  If you want to maximize recall, getting there by skimming the text repeatedly is actually quite slow.  Impatience slows down digestion of texts.  I'm still patient in social contexts, but I'm not patient with books anymore, and that's frustrating.  I swear I'm not making a willful decision to read in a less efficient manner.

Hm...  This next chapter talks about wind increasing evaporation rates.  I wonder if we could shape the landscape to promote consistent winds over a water source which we would like to evaporate faster and provide more water to the biosphere.

This bit is kind of cool.  There are distinct types of fog.  Ground fog is also known as "radiation fog", because it's produced by Earth's radiational cooling.  The ground cools enough that it chills the air above it until that air goes under its dew point, and then water starts condensing out of the air in ground-level clouding.  Someday I would like to stay for a week or a month in a place cold and humid where impressive ground fogs arise.  Valley fog is radiation fog that occurs in a valley.  High fog is radiation fog that's so thick it settles across the land like a ground-level stratus deck, resisting burn-off by the sun!  I'd love to see that, too.  Advection fog is another kind of fog, associated with coastal areas near cold waters, as well as the proximate regions between different oceanic currents with different temperatures.  Advection fog forms when warm, moist air moves over a sufficiently colder surface so that it gets cooled under its dew point like ground fog.  Unlike ground fogs which form best when there is very little wind, advection fog is always associated with wind.  If an advection fog forms over land, it's known as an advection-radiation fog, because advection fogs over land still rely on radiational cooling from the Earth.  A third basic kind of fog is upslope fog, which forms when wind drives moist air up slopes to higher altitudes.  At the higher altitudes, the air expands, but since it expands without gaining thermal energy it actually gets colder.  If this expansion drives it below its dew point, upslope fogs form.  Finally, there is evaporation fog, which the book says is more technically called evaporation (mixing) fog, parenthetical included.  This is the fog that forms when you exhale warm, moist air on a cold day.  Evaporation fog is also the kind that forms over heated pools in wintertime, and the kind that forms if warm rain falls through cold air, in which case it is known as precipitation fog or frontal fog.

---
Back to [[metr101]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[metr101]: metr101.md "METR101"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"