# Twice Trapped Hellscape

---
I don't remember when I originally invented this material, but I believe I was still in public school at the time.  I never used it for any writing that I can remember, and it has just occurred to me that there's no reason I have yet thought up why I shouldn't someday use it.  I've never really judged its usability.  I'm not sure if I ever recorded it anywhere.

Is creativity a well for memory to draw upon?

---
Once upon a time, there was a world of great chaos, ruled by very powerful beings who fought wars for their pleasures.  They were brilliant and capable, but they could sorrow for no destruction save their own, and their society in its plenitude had realized they could live without sorrow if they threatened not each other.  Yet there were other sapient beings in this world, a species of eldritch ones and a species of lesser though harmonious minds.  The very powerful beings could never sorrow for these, and these they destroyed for pleasure; indeed, they tolerated the growth of the lesser though harmonious ones as a kind of investment in future pleasures, while raising the eldritch ones as a form of crop, for they had found ways to derive great power from entrapping and controlling a species stronger yet but not as capable as they.

Very rarely did anything about this situation please the beings of lesser though harmonious minds, and never at all was it valued by the eldritch ones.  In their occasionally lengthy periods of not drawing the attention of the very powerful beings, the harmonious were more capable than the very powerful beings had expected them to be, and eventually developed great specialists in the capabilities of their world.  It took some time before losses among the very powerful beings were considered something more than a sign of unusually great fun to be had, and when they finally became alarmed it appeared that indeed the world of the lesser but harmonious beings had become the very great fun that the very powerful beings wanted.

This continued until heroes of the lesser though harmonious beings managed to free some of the eldritch beings who were being farmed by the very powerful beings.  They freed them and did not exploit them, and there grew a sense of potential coexistence.  In alliance between the two there was a very tremendous amount of capability to direct, and the very powerful beings became greviously disadvantaged.  Indeed, in the subsequent turning of the war they soon became trapped at all points quite literally, as the freed eldritch beings moved rampantly across the land by angles unseen.

Yet the eldritch beings were merciful, though the lesser harmonious beings were not, and they proposed a solution to the war which would minimize casualties between the three populations at once and forever: they would fabricate a prison dimension for the very powerful beings, containing them though less so than they had contained the eldritch, for the eldritch would not 'farm' them or afflict them with anything but the potential privation of a new realm built in an unknowable direction from our own.  Then the peace would be firm, and the two kinds who had learned they could live together would do so, while the beings who had afflicted them both would live only with the beings they had proven they could live with: their own.

Unfortunately, the lesser but harmonious beings could not live with the eldritch beings.  The combined population proved sickly, stressed, chaotic, and prone to bizarre ill fortune.  The eldritch beings loved the lesser but harmonious beings, yet their very presence degraded that reality, undermining those they loved.  When overt conflicts arose between the two kinds of being, it pained the elritch beings to advocate for their own rights, knowing that their presence was doing harm to others.  When eldritch beings tried to serve lesser but harmonious beings, the results were reliably disastrous.  The two populations could only achieve an illusion of understanding one another.  The best they could hope for seemed to be mutual nondestruction.

Eventually, conflicts arose between heroes of the lesser but harmonious beings and the eldritch beings, and the heroes of those conflicts grew only nearer to the blazing truth of beauty over time.  Eventually, when the eldritch beings were sealed away in an unknowable direction by the heroes of the lesser harmonious beings, it happened not purely for the rise of mathematical brilliance among the lesser but harmonious beings, yet also because the eldritch had lost the will to resist, and detached from the conflict.

This became the second prison realm.  It had already existed, indeed the eldritch beings had never stopped being partially extant within it, but now it was the limit of their reality.  It was to them a prison with glass walls, but few holes.  They could watch the lesser but harmonious beings to one side of their realm, and they could watch the very powerful beings to the other side of their realm.  Most of them chose to watch the lesser but harmonious beings, and though it was flayed apart strangely by their incomprehensible geometry, there arose on the harmonious side of the riftspace a society mimicking that of the lesser but harmonious beings, for the eldritch beings were still intent on their affections and wishing to learn to understand how living in harmony could be possible.  Conversely, to the far side of the riftspace there was a grimly understaffed cordon, frequently drawn into open conflict with the very powerful beings, who had set upon the limits of their prison with the fervor of their powerful minds.  The eldritch beings were still individually greater than the very powerful beings, but the very powerful beings never fought alone against the eldritch beings, and so the conflicts sometimes went to whichever side could bring the greatest numbers to a field of battle.

The eldritch beings fought this conflict while leaving as many resources as possible to the study of the lesser though harmonious beings, for they believed that if the two societies could be safely united they would be unstoppably superior to the very powerful beings.   They thought for a long time that the very powerful beings were trying to escape and wreak vengeance upon the lesser but harmonious beings; very occasionally, one or more of them slipped the cordon and did just that, proving far more capable of finding and utilizing weaknesses in the harmonious-side seal than were the eldritch beings themselves.  Yet as the eldritch beings suffered losses maintaining the cordon, they also roused more of their society with the fear of the old regime - of living in agony within the harvest traps of the very powerful beings.  This brought a full staffing effort to the 'hellside' of the cordon, where sprouted new cities as the eldritch beings rebalanced across riftspace.  They observed closely the prison realm of the very powerful beings, as they had long before observed the society of the lesser though harmonious minds.  With sufficient staffing to both maintain the cordon and operate research facilities, they learned the intentions of the very powerful beings.  They were forming hunting parties to extract resources from the eldritch beings.

The fear of the old regime abated.  The conflict transformed as the eldritch beings staffed new defenses with stronger warriors operating in more regular formations... and then the conflict gained a new horror.  The very powerful beings were good at navigating the geometry of riftspace.  Even though they were navigating an environment with more spatial dimensions than their prison realm, they were swift, agile, and capable of seeing where they were going.  Their raiding parties could descend on isolated targets with little warning.  The disinterest of the hunters in exhausting their supply of prey had been the reason why the cordon hadn't been overwhelmed already.  What had been a war to the eldritch beings had been an agricultural activity to the very powerful beings - again.  The fear of the old regime returned.

The very powerful beings had been suffering greatly all this time.  Their prison realm was more than somewhat scarce of resources; it was slightly inimical to their very existence, in a manner most analagous to a human community living near the limit of survivable long-term radiation exposure.  They built their cities in this place, because they had nowhere else they could be.  They were fractious and of many minds; the prison realm packed with city-states, all slightly different from their neighbors, all alike in being poor and unwell.  Yet they were also all alike in a common brilliance, and their society discovered a source of resources: the eldritch beings who were trapping them.  The great basic industry which became the backbone of their survival was to acquire the blood of the eldritch beings.  As it had been, but now there was a new urgency; they were not merely being healed and empowered by the blood as they had been when they shared a realm with the lesser but harmonious beings.  Rather, it was the only thing that could let them bring useful resources into their prison realm, giving them some power over their conditions and the capacity of maintaining other professions.

When the eldritch beings militarized the border, the hunting parties lost effectiveness.  A success rate that still horrified the eldritch beings to confront now that they were collectively aware of it still starved the industry of the very powerful beings, who entered a period of great famine as the eldritch blood supply fell under almost everyone's plans.  Quite against their will, their whole society became austere, and the city-states were pressed into 'ivory sameness', a commentary on the fashion that was dominating in a period where even the people who wanted to look good had no luxuries.  The fountains of blood fell dry in city after city, and people talked about the land turning bone-white and barren without it.

The lesser though harmonious beings at this point are basically ignorant that there ever were eldritch beings and very powerful beings, having built up a society of their own differing little from Earth save in the occasional institution of a school of magic.  They're more aware of the very powerful beings than the eldritch beings, because from those rare intrusions upon their reality they've decided to call the very powerful beings "demons".  They have no idea that the "demon" society of the very powerful beings just went into a period of utter resource desperation making dimensional breaching necessary for their survival.  The demons for their part consider themselves well aware that only a military solution will save the existence of their civilian society, but the city-states are stuck with distrust issues and internecine conflicts interfering with their ability to send their military into riftspace to acquire more eldritch blood.

That was the status quo of the setting at the point where I'd intended to potentially start writing in it.  The eldritch beings just militarized, the demons are warring for unity, and the harmonious have no idea that there are wars being fought a meter over in an unfathomable direction.  It was a fantasy setting, and I was going to staff it with furry characters.  Shifts in riftspace would impact the magical community first, who wouldn't necessarily understand what was going on when it disadvantaged their endeavors.  I never decided exactly how magic would work in the setting, but I decided early on that it was the only force which made access to the riftspace between the two comprehensible realities possible for beings not native to that space.

I never exactly authored a bestiary, but my designs for the very powerful beings were highly diverse and more often traditionally eldritch than my designs for the eldritch beings, though their eldritchness was limited by the fact that they still had a society and a sense of aesthetics (albeit an inhuman one) shaping their adopted biological or psuedobiological forms.  They were a self-shaping population who chose what they wanted to become.  The resulting changes took time to manifest, but could be accelerated with eldritch blood.  Their ability to shape themselves in this way was possibly key to why they were very powerful beings, as they constantly sought to self-improve and maximize their specialties.  Some of them had shaped away their biology until they became various kinds of unreal monster or golem, while many in their society fretted with the conflict between the aesthetics of power and the actuality of power.  The power of a great common preference was keeping their society mostly governed by demons of average power and superior aesthetics (as judged locally), and an agreement among the more monstrous that it really did look good and fit for them as well kept down the conflict between people at different intensities of self-improvement.

The eldritch beings meanwhile were all of a species that were clearly eastern dragons if viewed in sufficient dimensions to perceive their entire forms.  Viewed in an inadequate number of dimensions, they were not so pretty, and they were prone to a disconcerting kind of silent phasing as they moved.  This happened because the fractions of their form precisely aligned to interact with three dimensions would be changing from moment to moment as they moved.  So that was the species roaming Riftspace, and finding it a generally satisfying environment in which they were voluntarily contained.  Since their society was fixated on that of the lesser though harmonious beings, many of these adopted conceptual stylings as a kind of semipermanent costume.  The conceptually-aligned in their society were rife with strange fixations that contained a lot which was true without revealing a great understanding of the society of the lesser though harmonious beings.  Wizards in the setting know of these variously as spirits of wisdom or madness, or even as 'wish' spirits to those who are warning against being reckless enough to express specific personal desires to any spirit in riftspace.  For they often try to do what is nice and can be quite empowering, but their gifts and services come with the same kind of cursed side effects and earnest misunderstandings that had ended full coexistence before.  Far safer just to ask them questions, especially if you meet one whose costume seems to be styled after a concept important to your life; those are the best to ask questions of and the worst to take favors from.

Although I never used it, this society and this history was created as a potential home setting for a character named Erawyn Naur, who I have been supposed to have forgotten.  He will not presently have a page upon this archive.  It was an unpleasant experience, trying to use him, and every single time was an unpleasant experience, until I began to have difficulty with anything related to him.  Constantly I felt pressured into things which were obligatory yet incorrect, and disdained for doing things I didn't want to be doing.  If I had paid more exacting attention to that feeling at that time I could have spared myself a lot of suffering in the long-term, but I found that it was a feeling which was very difficult to accept and process.  That eventually drove me off the thought of him, and it drove me off the thought of this setting, but I've realized that sticking the same sense to the setting is not necessary.